Hey
Hey. So where's Mon?
Oh, she's at home, putting up decorations for Rachel's birthday party tonight.
And you're not helping?
I tried, but apparantly singing "I will survive" in a helium voice  - not helping.
Hey you guys!
Hey! Happy birthday ...
Shhh don't say that loud, Gunther's gonna want to hug me.
Uh, good news everyone, we finally found a nanny. This is Molly . Molly, Chandler, Joey.
Hi.
Hi.
Ooh, somebody's getting a little fussy.
You damn right I am, I've been waiting for a cookie for 7 minutes.
Ok, you know what, I'm just gonna take her outside.
No, you stay, I'll do it .
OK, thank you.
Nice to meet you guys .
Yeah, you too.
Oh, wow, Molly is just great!
Yeah.
Yes, Bravo on the hot nanny.
What? You really think she's hot?
Are you kidding? If I wasn't married she'd be rejecting me right now.
And Joey?
How do you think she's doing?
Am I the only one who doesn't think that she's hot? Ross?
Eh, I mean, I mena she's not unattractive but hot? I ....
Thank you!
Now that Rachel's gone?
So hot I cried myself to sleep last night.
Hey Mike, what's the capital of Peru?
Lima.
No. It starts with a "v" and ends with an "x". Helpfully  with a "to" in the middle.
You know, kinda think of it, the capital of Peru IS "vtox".  Oh god! Oh!
What?
OK, I don't want to freak you out or anything, but I think I just saw a  rat in your cupboard.
Oh, whew, no, that's Bob.
What, is he your pet rat?
Well not so much a pet as, you know, an occasional visitor who  I put food out for, you know. Kinda like Santa. Except Santa doesn't poop on  the plate of cookies.
You can't keep a rat in your appartment! They're extremely unsanitary,  and they transmit leptospirosis and hantavirus.
What are those?
I don't know but they don't sound like spa treatments. You have to get  rid of it!
OK, fine, if it means that much to you I'll get rid of Bob.
Thank you.
So weird, you think he's so gross and you're willing to eat his crackers.
Hello.
Hello
Gavin, I just wanted to say thank you again for watching Emma  yesterday during the presentation. I really owe you an appology.
For what?
Well, when we first met, you know, I thought you were pompous  and arrogant and obnoxious ...
Is this your first appology?
No, I just mean that, you know, first impressions don't mean anything. And  I-I think you're a really good guy and I'm sorry that I misjudged you.
Good morning!
Hello. I'm sorry,  obviously Heather's ass has something more important to say so I'll just wait  'till it's finished.
What?
I was giving you an appology and you were totally checking her out!
I wasn't checking her out. I'm in fashion, I was looking at her  skirt. Or was it pants? I didn't really see what happened below the ass area.
Oh wow, you are really, you're really a creep.
Why do you even care if I was looking at her? Are you jealous?
Oh yeah, I'm jealous. "Oh Gavin, please, please look at  my ass". Stop looking at my ass! I mean, I just  think you are totally inappropriate, ok? This is a work environment, she's your  subordinate.
I thought it was ok when you slept with your old assistant Tag.
That is totally different for two reasons. One - I didn't know  that you knew that. And two, I wasn't some creep staring at his ass, we had  a deap meaningful relationship.
Huh. What's Tag's last name?
It was ... oh my god. He didn't have a last  name. It was just "Tag". You know, like Cher, or, you know, Moses.
But it was a deap meaningful relationship.
Oh, you know what - my first impression of you was absolutely  right. You are arrogant, you are pompous ... Morgan! Morgan! Tag's last name  was Morgan! Huh!
It was Jones.
Yeah well what are you, his boyfriend?
Man, I wish I had a nanny like you.
You mean, when you were a baby.
Sure.
Would you stop staring at her?
I wasn't staring. I was leering.
What's the big deal with her? Maybe she's attractive in an obvious kind  of way.
Yeah, obvious beauty's the worst. You know, when it's right there  in your face. Me, I like to have to work to find someone attractive. Makes me  feel like I earned it.
Looks like Joey is doing allright with her.
Yeah. Hey, that was nice of you guys to back off and let Joey get the girl  for once.
I'm gonna take her back to the appartment.
Ok, I'll be home right after work. Ok, by Emma-Wemma-Demma, I love you  - wovyou dovyou ...
Bye
They've elected me to talk to you about the baby talk - it's not so good.
I think it's sweet.
Bye, Emma-Wemma-Demma.
Hey, listen, Joey, about Molly, I really prefer if  you didn't go after her.
Why not?
Because it took us months to find a good nanny and I wouldn't want anything  to, you know, drive her away.
So, what, you think I'm just gonna sleep with her and never call  her again and things are gonna get uncomfortable? Yeah, sounds  about right.
Come on, there are plenty of other women out thereok? Just - just  forget about her, ok? Just, she's off limits.
Oh, man, why did have to go and say that for? Now that you told  me I can't have it makes me want her even more!
What are you, a child?
Yes!
Joey, come on now, for me! Please, just-just try to focus your sexual energy  on someone else.
Fine.Hey Mikey
Hey P
What are you doing?
Setting rat traps.
To kill Bob??
No, no, to test his neck strength.
No, Mike, I don't want to kill him! I thought we were just gonna  capture him and, and you know, set him free in the country side where he can  maybe meet a friendly possom and a wisecracking owl.
Ok, ok, I'll throw away the traps.
I'll find Bob, I'll get him. Bob? Oh wait, I think I hear him. Oh - Oh my god! Bob had babies!  Bob's a mom!
Better think of a new name for him.
I don't know, I kinda like Bob for a girl.
I don't know, I mean I'm not sure ...
Oh my god, we killed Bob!
Maybe it wasn't Bob, maybe it was a mouse.
Suzie?
Whazzup??
Seriously dude, 3 years ago.
Listen, can you do me a favor? I'm gonna be out today. Can you just keep  an eye on Joey, make sure nothing happens between him and Molly?
You don't trust him?
Wh - No. Some woman who sounded a lot like Joey called earlier and asked  for her daughter, the "hot nanny".
Is this really your long term plan, for me to run interference?  Because I could get a job any day now.
You do appear right on the cusp of something. Come on man, I'm  sure he'll lose interest in a week or two, but for now can you please just do  this for me?
Allright, fine, but don't blame me if it doesn't work. Because you know  as well as I do that once Joey sets his mind on something, more often than not,  he's going to have sex with it.
Well we gotta do something, ok? Nannies like her don't grow on trees.
Picturing that tree?
I am, yes.
Where you going, Joe?
For a walk.
Oh. You mind if I join you?
Actually, that will be long. You know, I really need to organize  my thoughts.
Your thoughts? Plural?
Allright, fine, I only have one thought! It's about the hot nanny, I gotta  see her!
I'm afraid I can't let you do that, Joe.
Now YOU'RE telling me I can't see her?? You guys are killing me!  She's forbidden fruit! It's like ... like she's the princess and I'm the stable  boy ... Why are you doing this, huh? Did Ross tell you not to let me go over  there?
Yes, as a matter of fact he did, so I can't let you go.
Huh. Interesting. Now there are obstacles. Hot nanny and me against the  world. This is the kind of stuff great novels are made of.
Great novels?
Fine ... mediocre porn
Gavin Mitchelle's office.
Rachel Green's office!! Give me that phone!
Hey Mom! No, that's just my secretary.
Um, excuse me Gavin, I have a question I need to ask you.
Mom, I'll call you later. Yeah. Yes?
If you like looking at butts so much why don't you just go look at a mirror?
Thank god you finally said that, I saw you make a note on your  pad three hours ago. Man, I really bug you,  don't I?
Oh, please, I don't care about you enough to bug me. In fact,  from now on, I'm going take the high road. And I'm going be very very nice to  you, you "momma's boy", starting right now.
Hey Rach!
Hi!
Ready for your birthday lunch?
Yeah I am, I am! Oh, but first of all, Monica, I would like to introduce  you to my very talented colleage and more importantly my wonderful friend Gavin  Mitchelle.
Pleased to meet you.
Pleased to meet you. So you're coming to Rachel's party tonight?
Oh no no no no no, Gavin can't, he already has plans, most likely with his  mother.
Well I don't mind, I'll cancel. I would never miss my secretary's birthday.
Why did you invite him?? I can't stand that guy!
You were just being so nice to him!
I was faking it! Can't you tell when I'm being fake?
Hey, Mr Philips, nice suit!
Right there! That was so fake!
Shh!
I still can't believe you invited Gavin. Allright, he is the  last person I want to see.
Oh, you're welcome for the party. I'm glad you're having a good time.
God, I hope he doesn't show up. Of course he's not gonna show up, the guy  hates me.
Does he?
What?
Maybe he's bothering you so much because he likes you. It's like in first  grade when Skippy Langwild always pushed me on the playground because he secretly  had a crush on me?
Oh, Monica, you think Skippy liked you? Honey, all those buys had a bet  to see if he can knock you over.
She's out, I'm gonna take her home.
Oh, ok, thank you. Do you see what all the guys  see in her?
Wouldn't kick her out of bed. No more Vodka for me!
Hey Rach, so can I sing happy birthday to you now?
Yeah, sure!
Oh ...
Hey Rach, somebody got you shoes!
Oh, give me!
Be careful, be careful! These are my rat babies!
Yeah. We have rat babies now.
Ahhhh , you brought rats to my birthday party?
So this is what a stroke feels like.
I had to bring them! We killed their mother, they're our responsibility  now. You know, they require constant care. You should know that, Rachel, you're  a mother.
Are you comparing my daughter to a rat?
No! Seven rats! I think we should take them home, we need feed  them.
whhh wait, you're gonna leave my party to take care of a box of rats?
Well I'm sorry Rachel, but I'm not like you, ok? Not everyone  can afford help.
Where the hell are Joey and Molly? I asked you to watch them.
I'm sorry, I got a little occupied.
We have to stop them before something happens!So you see, Molly, what people don't understand is that acting is a discipline.  It takes a lot of hard work.
So where did you study?
Oh, I didn't go to college.
No, where did you study acting?
Molly ... people don't study acting ...
Molly, ah, do you mind giving us just a minute?
Sure, I'll go check on Emma.
Thanx.
Will the stable boy never get the princess??
What do you think you're gonna do, have sex with her right here on my couch?
No ... the leather sticks to my ass. You know, this isn't fair.  What makes you think that I'm just gonna sleep with her and then blow her off?  Huh? Can't you guys open your minds to the possibility that I actally like her,  and might want something real? Look, the truth is, I haven't felt this  way about anyone since Rachel, ok? I didn't think I could ever love again.
Come on! Joe!
Ok
Hi, is Molly here?
Yeah, come on in. Molly?
I'll see you tomorrow.
Ok ... Well, uh, Joey, I guess we have  no problem.
It's like my favorite fairy tale come true! The  princess, the stable boy and the lesbian!
Ok, ok, you start preparing the formula and I start changing  the box and then we gotta put them straight to bed.
Hey, when did we become one of those couples whose lives revolve  around their rats?
Well, you know what, they're our responsibility now.
Ok, fine, these rats are our responsibility. What happens when they mate  and there are hundreds of them?
Mate? They're all brothers and sisters.
Yeah - not such a problem with rats. No, they're more of a "love  the one you're with" kind of animals.
No.  That's math I can't even do! What are we gonna do?
Well, I know this is gonna sound crazy, but, we could not let  the box of rats ruin our lives.
Yeah, ok. I guess you're right. Allright, so we should just give them away.  But to nice families, with children, and reduced fat wheat thins. They're Bob's  favorites.
It's gonna be ok.
You must think I'm crazy.
No, I think you're sweet.
Good. It's just so hard, it's hard for me to ... let them go.  I guess it just brings back memories, you know, from ... when I gave birth to  my brother's triplets and I had to give them up. I haven't  told you about that yet, have I?
Hey!
Hi. Thanks for the party, honey. Should I help you clean up?
No way! You had your party, now I have mine! Is everything alright?
Yeah, I just get a little bummed when my birthday's over.
Well, at least you have one thing to be happy about. That jerk Gavin from  your office didn't show up .
Mmm hmm.
Yeah, hey.
Oh, we weren't talking about you. No, no way to recover.
No.
Nice party.
Well, it was, and you would have seen it if you didn't showed up at ... 9:30?? God! Oh, this party was lame ...
Again, you're welcome.
Look, I'll just give you this and go.
Oh, you bought me a present! Why?
Well, let me explain how birthday parties usually work. There  are presents, and a cake, perhaps a fourth or fifth person. Ok, I ... got you  the present to make up for being such a jerk to you earlier.
Aww. Well, ok, well that's very nice. And you wrote a card . "From Gavin"
I really mean it.
Awww, awww, it's beautiful.
You don't mind? Well, what do you know, it fits!
See, Gavin, you're capable of being a nice guy. Why did you give me such  a hard time?
I'm not sure.
Well Monica seems to think it's because you have feelings for me.
I do have feelings for you.
You do?
Yes, I feel that you are a little annoying.
See? Why, Gavin, why? Right when I'm about to change my opinion  of you, you go and you ...
Hey
Hi
Listen, I think I've left something here.
Oh, well someone left this . This is yours?
No, but I like it. I think I left one of  my rat babies.
Oh, uh, well, I haven't seem it but if I do I'll let you know.
Ohmygod! Rat baby! Rat baby! Rat baby!
Ooh, maybe that's him!