_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Prigio.txt.out

If he had been too warm before , the prince was too cold now .
The hill of the Remora was one solid mass of frozen steel , and the cold rushed out of it like the breath of some icy beast , which indeed it was .
All around were things like marble statues of men in armour : they were the dead bodies of the knights , horses and all , who had gone out of old to fight the Remora , and who had been frosted up by him .
The prince felt his blood stand still , and he grew faint ; but he took heart , for there was no time to waste .
Yet he could nowhere see the Remora .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted the prince .
Then , from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth , black hill , -- a chink no deeper than that under a door , but a mile wide , -- stole out a hideous head !
It was as flat as the head of a skate-fish , it was deathly pale , and two chill-blue eyes , dead-coloured like stones , looked out of it .
Then there came a whisper , like the breath of the bitter east wind on a winter day : `` Where are you , and how can I come to you ? ''
`` Here I am ! ''
said the prince from the top of the hill .
Then the flat , white head set itself against the edge of the chink from which it had peeped , and slowly , like the movement of a sheet of ice , it slipped upwards and curled upwards , and up , and up !
There seemed no end to it at all ; and it moved horribly , without feet , holding on by its own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill .
Now all the lower part of the black hill was covered with the horrid white thing coiled about it in smooth , flat , shiny coils ; and still the head was higher than the rest ; and still the icy cold came nearer and nearer , like Death .
The prince almost fainted : everything seemed to swim ; and in one moment more he would have fallen stiff on the mountain-top , and the white head would have crawled over him , and the cold coils would have slipped over him and turned him to stone .
And still the thing slipped up , from the chink under the mountain .
But the prince made a great effort ; he moved , and in two steps he was far away , down in the valley where it was not so very cold .
`` Hi ! ''
he shouted , as soon as his tongue could move within his chattering teeth .
There came a clear , hissing answer , like frozen words dropping round him : `` Wait till I come down .
What do you want ? ''
Then the white folds began to slide , like melting ice , from the black hill .
Prince Prigio felt the air getting warmer behind him , and colder in front of him .
He looked round , and there were the trees beginning to blacken in the heat , and the grass looking like a sea of fire along the plains ; for the Firedrake was coming !
The prince just took time to shout , `` The Firedrake is going to pay you a visit ! ''
and then he soared to the top of a neighbouring hill , and looked on at what followed .
CHAPTER XI .
The Battle .
It was an awul sight to behold !
When the Remora heard the name of the Firedrake , his hated enemy , he slipped with wonderful speed from the cleft of the mountain into the valley .
On and on and on he poured over rock and tree , as if a frozen river could slide downhill ; on and on , till there were miles of him stretching along the valley -- miles of the smooth - ribbed , icy creature , crawling and slipping forwards .
The green trees dropped their leaves as he advanced ; the birds fell down dead from the sky , slain by his frosty breath !
But , fast as the Remora stole forward , the Firedrake came quicker yet , flying and clashing his fiery wings .
At last they were within striking distance ; and the Firedrake , stooping from the air , dashed with his burning horns and flaming feet slap into the body of the Remora .
Then there rose a steam so dreadful , such a white yet fiery vapour of heat , that no one who had not the prince 's magic glass could have seen what happened .
With horrible grunts and roars the Firedrake tried to burn his way right through the flat body of the Remora , and to chase him to his cleft in the rock .
But the Remora , hissing terribly , and visibly melting away in places , yet held his ground ; and the prince could see his cold white folds climbing slowly up the hoofs of the Firedrake -- up and up , till they reached his knees , and the great burning beast roared like a hundred bulls with the pain .
Then up the Firedrake leaped , and hovering on his fiery wings , he lighted in the midst of the Remora 's back , and dashed into it with his horns .
But the flat , cruel head writhed backwards , and , slowly bending over on itself , the wounded Remora slid greedily to fasten again on the limbs of the Firedrake .
Meanwhile , the prince , safe on his hill , was lunching on the loaf and the cold tongue he had brought with him .
`` Go it , Remora !
Go it , Firedrake !
you 're gaining .
Give it him , Remora ! ''
he shouted in the wildest excitement .
Nobody had ever seen such a battle ; he had it all to himself , and he never enjoyed anything more .
He hated the Remora so much , that he almost wished the Firedrake could beat it ; for the Firedrake was the more natural beast of the pair .
Still , he was alarmed when he saw that the vast flat body of the Remora was now slowly coiling backwards , backwards , into the cleft below the hill ; while a thick wet mist showed how cruelly it had suffered .
But the Firedrake , too , was in an unhappy way ; for his legs were now cold and black , his horns were black also , though his body , especially near the heart , glowed still like red-hot iron .
`` Go it , Remora ! ''
cried the prince : `` his legs are giving way ; he 's groggy on his pins !
One more effort , and he wo n't be able to move ! ''
Encouraged by this advice , the white , slippery Remora streamed out of his cavern again , more and more of him uncoiling , as if the mountain were quite full of him .
He had lost strength , no doubt : for the steam and mist went up from him in clouds , and the hissing of his angry voice grew fainter ; but so did the roars of the Firedrake .
Presently they sounded more like groans ; and at last the Remora slipped up his legs above the knees , and fastened on his very heart of fire .
Then the Firedrake stood groaning like a black bull , knee-deep in snow ; and still the Remora climbed and climbed .
`` Go it now , Firedrake ! ''
shouted the prince ; for he knew that if the Remora won , it would be too cold for him to draw near the place , and cut off the Firedrake 's head and tail .
`` Go it , Drake !
he 's slackening ! ''
cried the prince again ; and the brave Firedrake made one last furious effort , and rising on his wings , dropped just on the spine of his enemy .
The wounded Remora curled back his head again on himself , and again crawled , steaming terribly , towards his enemy .
But the struggle was too much for the gallant Remora .
The flat , cruel head moved slower ; the steam from his thousand wounds grew fiercer ; and he gently breathed his last just as the Firedrake , too , fell over and lay exhausted .
With one final roar , like the breath of a thousand furnaces , the Firedrake expired .
The prince , watching from the hill-top , could scarcely believe that these two awful scourges of Nature , which had so long devastated his country , were actually dead .
But when he had looked on for half-an-hour , and only a river ran where the Remora had been , while the body of the Firedrake lay stark and cold , he hurried to the spot .
Drawing the sword of sharpness , he hacked off , at two blows , the iron head and the tail of the Firedrake .
They were a weary weight to carry ; but in a few strides of the shoes of swiftness he was at his castle , where he threw down his burden , and nearly fainted with excitement and fatigue .
-LCB- The Prince in front of the Firedrake : p78.jpg -RCB- But the castle clock struck half-past seven ; dinner was at eight , and the poor prince crawled on hands and knees to the garret .
Here he put on the wishing-cap ; wished for a pint of champagne , a hot bath , and his best black velvet and diamond suit .
In a moment these were provided ; he bathed , dressed , drank a glass of wine , packed up the head and tail of the Firedrake , sat down on the flying carpet , and knocked at the door of the English ambassador as the clocks were striking eight in Gluckstein .
Punctuality is the politeness of princes !
and a prince is polite , when he is in love !
The prince was received at the door by a stout porter and led into the hall , where several butlers met him , and he laid the mortal remains of the Firedrake under the cover of the flying carpet .
Then he was led upstairs ; and he made his bow to the pretty lady , who , of course , made him a magnificent courtesy .
She seemed prettier and kinder than ever .
The prince was so happy , that he never noticed how something went wrong about the dinner .
The ambassador looked about , and seemed to miss someone , and spoke in a low voice to one of the servants , who answered also in a low voice , and what he said seemed to displease the ambassador .
But the prince was so busy in talking to his lady , and in eating his dinner too , that he never observed anything unusual .
He had never been at such a pleasant dinner !
CHAPTER XII .
A Terrible Misfortune .
When the ladies left , and the prince and the other gentlemen were alone , the ambassador appeared more gloomy than ever .
At last he took the prince into a corner , on pretence of showing him a rare statue .
`` Does your royal highness not know , '' he asked , `` that you are in considerable danger ? ''
`` Still ? ''
said the prince , thinking of the Firedrake .
The ambassador did not know what he meant , for he had never heard of the fight , but he answered gravely : `` Never more than now . ''
Then he showed the prince two proclamations , which had been posted all about the town .
-LCB- The ambassador showing the Prince the proclamation : p82.jpg -RCB- Here is the first : TO ALL LOYAL SUBJECTS .
Whereas , Our eldest son , Prince Prigio , hath of late been guilty of several high crimes and misdemeanours .
First : By abandoning the post of danger against the Firedrake , whereby our beloved sons , Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico , have perished , and been overdone by that monster .
Secondly : By attending an unseemly revel in the town of Gluckstein , where he brawled in the streets .
Thirdly : By trying to seduce away the hearts of our loyal subjects in that city , and to blow up a party against our crown and our peace .
This is to give warning , That whoever consorts with , comforts , aids , or abets the said Prince Prigio , is thereby a partner in his treason ; and That a reward of FIVE THOUSAND PURSES will be given to whomsoever brings the said prince , alive , to our Castle of Falkenstein .
GROGNIO R. And here is the second proclamation : REWARD .
THE FIREDRAKE .
Whereas , Our dominions have lately been devastated by a Firedrake -LRB- the Salamander Furiosus of Buffon -RRB- ; This is to advise all , That whosoever brings the horns and tail of the said Firedrake to our Castle of Falkenstein , shall receive FIVE THOUSAND PURSES , the position of Crown Prince , with the usual perquisites , and the hand of the king 's niece , the Lady Molinda .
GROGNIO R. `` H 'm , '' said the prince ; `` I did not think his majesty wrote so well ; '' and he would have liked to say , `` Do n't you think we might join the ladies . ''
`` But , sir , '' said the ambassador , `` the streets are lined with soldiers ; and I know not how you have escaped them .
Here , under my roof , you are safe for the moment ; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relations which prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the honour to represent . ''
`` We do n't want to fight ; and no more , I think , do you , '' said the prince , smiling .
`` Then how does your royal highness mean to treat the proclamations ? ''
`` Why , by winning these ten thousand purses .
I can tell you 1,000,000 pounds is worth having , '' said the prince .
`` I 'll deliver up the said prince , alive , at Falkenstein this very night ; also the horns and tail of the said Firedrake .
But I do n't want to marry my Cousin Molly . ''
`` May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein is three hundred miles away ?
Moreover , my head butler , Benson , disappeared from the house before dinner , and I fear he went to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you are here ! ''
`` That is nothing , '' said the prince ; `` but , my dear Lord Kelso , may I not have the pleasure of presenting Lady Rosalind with a little gift , a Philippine which I lost to her last night , merely the head and tail of a Firedrake which I stalked this morning ? ''
The ambassador was so astonished that he ran straight upstairs , forgetting his manners , and crying : `` Linda !
Linda !
come down at once ; here 's a surprise for you ! ''
Lady Rosalind came sweeping down , with a smile on her kind face .
She guessed what it was , though the prince had said nothing about it at dinner .
`` Lead the way , your royal highness ! ''
cried the ambassador ; and the prince , offering Lady Rosalind his arm , went out into the hall , where he saw neither his carpet nor the horns and tail of the Firedrake !
He turned quite pale , and said : `` Will you kindly ask the servants where the little Persian prayer-rug and the parcel which I brought with me have been placed ? ''
Lord Kelso rang the bell , and in came all the servants , with William , the under-butler , at their head .
`` William , '' said his lordship , `` where have you put his royal highness 's parcel and his carpet ? ''
`` Please , your lordship , '' said William , `` we think Benson have took them away with him . ''
`` And where is Benson ? ''
`` We do n't know , your lordship .
We think he have been come for ! ''
`` Come for -- by whom ? ''
William stammered , and seemed at a loss for a reply .
`` Quick !
answer !
what do you know about it ? ''
William said at last , rather as if he were making a speech .
`` Your royaliness , and my lords and ladies , it was like this .
His royaliness comed in with a rug over his arm , and summat under it .
And he lays it down on that there seat , and Thomas shows him into the droring - room .
Then Benson says : ` Dinner 'll be ready in five minutes ; how tired I do feel ! '
Then he takes the libbuty of sitting hisself down on his royaliness 's rug , and he says , asking your pardon , ` I 've had about enough of service here .
I 'm about tired , and I thinks of bettering myself .
I wish I was at the king 's court , and butler . '
But before the words was out of his mouth , off he flies like a shot through the open door , and his royaliness 's parcel with him .
I run to the door , and there he was , flying right hover the town , in a northerly direction .
And that 's all I know ; for I would not tell a lie , not if it was never so .
And me , and Thomas -- as did n't see it , -- and cook , we thinks as how Benson was come for .
And cook says as she do n't wonder at it , neither ; for a grumblinger , more ill-conditioneder -- '' -LCB- The Butler on the carpet : p89.jpg -RCB- `` Thank you , William , '' said Lord Kelso ; `` that will do ; you can go , for the present . ''
CHAPTER XIII .
Surprises .
The prince said nothing , the ambassador said nothing , Lady Rosalind said never a word till they were in the drawing-room .
It was a lovely warm evening , and the French windows were wide open on the balcony , which looked over the town and away north to the hills .
Below them flowed the clear , green water of the Gluckthal .
And still nobody said a word .
At last the prince spoke : `` This is a very strange story , Lord Kelso ! ''
`` Very , sir ! ''
said the ambassador .
`` But true , '' added the prince ; `` at least , there is no reason in the nature of things why it should n't be true . ''
`` I can hardly believe , sir , that the conduct of Benson , whom I always found a most respectable man , deserved -- '' `` That he should be ` come for , ' '' said the prince .
`` Oh , no ; it was a mere accident , and might have happened to any of us who chanced to sit down on my carpet . ''
And then the prince told them , shortly , all about it : how the carpet was one of a number of fairy properties , which had been given him at his christening ; and how so long a time had gone by before he discovered them ; and how , probably , the carpet had carried the butler where he had said he wanted to go , namely -- to the king 's Court at Falkenstein .
`` It would not matter so much , '' added the prince , `` only I had relied on making my peace with his majesty , my father , by aid of those horns and that tail .
He was set on getting them ; and if the Lady Rosalind had not expressed a wish for them , they would to-day have been in his possession . ''
`` Oh , sir , you honour us too highly , '' murmured Lady Rosalind ; and the prince blushed and said : `` Not at all !
Impossible ! ''
Then , of course , the ambassador became quite certain that his daughter was admired by the crown prince , who was on bad terms with the king of the country ; and a more uncomfortable position for an ambassador -- however , they are used to them .
`` What on earth am I to do with the young man ? ''
he thought .
`` He ca n't stay here for ever ; and without his carpet he ca n't get away , for the soldiers have orders to seize him as soon as he appears in the street .
And in the meantime Benson will be pretending that he killed the Firedrake -- for he must have got to Falkenstein by now , -- and they will be for marrying him to the king 's niece , and making my butler crown prince to the kingdom of Pantouflia !
It is dreadful ! ''
Now all this time the prince was on the balcony , telling Lady Rosalind all about how he got the Firedrake done for , in the most modest way ; for , as he said : '' I did n't kill him : and it is really the Remora , poor fellow , who should marry Molly ; but he 's dead . ''
At this very moment there was a whizz in the air : something shot past them , and , through the open window , the king , the queen , Benson , and the mortal remains of the Firedrake were shot into the ambassador 's drawing - room !
-LCB- The King and Queen on the carpet : p95.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER XIV .
The King Explains .
The first who recovered his voice and presence of mind was Benson .
`` Did your lordship ring for coffee ? ''
he asked , quietly ; and when he was told `` Yes , '' he bowed and withdrew , with majestic composure .
When he had gone , the prince threw himself at the king 's feet , crying : `` Pardon , pardon , my liege ! ''
`` Do n't speak to me , sir ! ''
answered the king , very angrily ; and the poor prince threw himself at the feet of the queen .
But she took no notice of him whatever , no more than if he had been a fairy ; and the prince heard her murmur , as she pinched her royal arms : `` I shall waken presently ; this is nothing out of the way for a dream .
Dr. Rumpfino ascribes it to imperfect nutrition . ''
All this time , the Lady Rosalind , as pale as a marble statue , was leaning against the side of the open window .
The prince thought he could do nothing wiser than go and comfort her , so he induced her to sit down on a chair in the balcony , -- for he felt that he was not wanted in the drawing - room ; -- and soon they were talking happily about the stars , which had begun to appear in the summer night .
Meanwhile , the ambassador had induced the king to take a seat ; but there was no use in talking to the queen .
`` It would be a miracle , '' she said to herself , `` and miracles do not happen ; therefore this has not happened .
Presently , I shall wake up in my own bed at Falkenstein . ''
Now , Benson , William , and Thomas brought in the coffee , but the queen took no notice .
When they went away , the rest of the company slipped off quietly , and the king was left alone with the ambassador ; for the queen could hardly be said to count .
-LCB- The King and Queen : p99.jpg -RCB- `` You want to know all about it , I suppose ? ''
said his majesty , in a sulky voice .
`` Well , you have a right to it , and I shall tell you .
We were just sitting down to dinner at Falkenstein , rather late , -- hours get later every year , I think -- when I heard a row in the premises , and the captain of the guard , Colonel McDougal , came and told us that a man had arrived with the horns and tail of the Firedrake , and was claiming the reward .
Her majesty and I rose and went into the outer court , where we found , sitting on that carpet with a glass of beer in his hand , a respectable - looking upper servant , whom I recognised as your butler .
He informed us that he had just killed the beast , and showed us the horns and tail , sure enough ; there they are !
The tail is like the iron handle of a pump , but the horns are genuine .
A pair were thrown up by a volcano , in my great - grandfather 's time , Giglio I. -LCB- 100 -RCB- Excellent coffee this , of yours ! ''
The ambassador bowed .
`` Well , we asked him where he killed the Firedrake , and he said in a garden near Gluckstein .
Then he began to speak about the reward , and the ` perkisits , ' as he called them , which it seems he had read about in my proclamation .
Rather a neat thing ; drew it up myself , '' added his majesty .
`` Very much to the point , '' said the ambassador , wondering what the king was coming to .
`` Glad you like it , '' said the king , much pleased .
`` Well , where was I ?
Oh , yes ; your man said he had killed the creature in a garden , quite near Gluckstein .
I did n't much like the whole affair : he is an alien , you see ; and then there was my niece , Molinda -- poor girl , she was certain to give trouble .
Her heart is buried , if I may say so , with poor Alphonso .
But the queen is a very remarkable woman -- very remarkable -- '' `` Very ! ''
said the Ambassador , with perfect truth . ''
` Caitiff ! '
she cries to your butler ; '' his majesty went on , '' ` perjured knave , thou liest in thy throat !
Gluckstein is a hundred leagues from here , and how sayest thou that thou slewest the monster , and camest hither in a few hours ' space ? '
This had not occurred to me , -- I am a plain king , but I at once saw the force of her majesty 's argument .
` Yes , ' said I ; ` how did you manage it ? '
But he -- your man , I mean -- was not a bit put out .
` Why , your majesty , ' says he , ' I just sat down on that there bit of carpet , wished I was here , and here I ham .
And I 'd be glad , having had the trouble , -- and my time not being my own , -- to see the colour of them perkisits , according to the proclamation . '
On this her majesty grew more indignant , if possible .
` Nonsense ! '
she cried ; ' a story out of the Arabian Nights is not suited for a modern public , and fails to win aesthetic credence . '
These were her very words . ''
`` Her majesty 's expressions are ever choice and appropriate , '' said the Ambassador . ''
` Sit down there , on the carpet , knave , ' she went on ; ` ourself and consort ' -- meaning me -- ` will take our places by thy side , and I shall wish us in Gluckstein , at thy master 's !
When the experiment has failed , thy head shall from thy shoulders be shorn ! '
So your man merely said , ` Very well , mum , -- your majesty , I mean , ' and sat down .
The queen took her place at the edge of the carpet ; I sat between her and the butler , and she said , ' I wish we were in Gluckstein ! '
Then we rose , flew through the air at an astonishing pace , and here we are !
So I suppose the rest of the butler 's tale is true , which I regret ; but a king 's word is sacred , and he shall take the place of that sneak , Prigio .
But as we left home before dinner , and as yours is over , may I request your lordship to believe that I should be delighted to take something cold ? ''
The ambassador at once ordered a sumptuous collation , to which the king did full justice ; and his majesty was shown to the royal chamber , as he complained of fatigue .
The queen accompanied him , remarking that she was sound asleep , but would waken presently .
Neither of them said `` Good-night '' to the prince .
Indeed , they did not see him again , for he was on the balcony with Lady Rosalind .
They found a great deal to say to each other , and at last the prince asked her to be his wife ; and she said that if the king and her father gave their permission -- why , then she would !
After this she went to bed ; and the prince , who had not slept at all the night before , felt very sleepy also .
But he knew that first he had something that must be done .
So he went into the drawing-room , took his carpet , and wished to be -- now , where do you suppose ?
Beside the dead body of the Firedrake !
There he was in a moment ; and dreadful the body looked , lying stark and cold in the white moonshine .
Then the prince cut off its four hoofs , put them in his wallet , and with these he flew back in a second , and met the ambassador just as he came from ushering the king to bed .
Then the prince was shown his own room , where he locked up the hoofs , the carpet , the cap of darkness , and his other things in an iron box ; and so he went to bed and dreamed of his Lady Rosalind .
CHAPTER XV .
The King 's Cheque .
When they all wakened next morning , their first ideas were confused .
It is often confusing to waken in a strange bed , much more so when you have flown through the air , like the king , the queen , and Benson the butler .
For her part , the queen was the most perplexed of all ; for she did undeniably wake , and yet she was not at home , where she had expected to be .
However , she was a determined woman , and stood to it that nothing unusual was occurring .
The butler made up his mind to claim the crown princeship and the hand of the Lady Molinda ; because , as he justly remarked to William , here was such a chance to better himself as might not soon come in his way again .
As for the king , he was only anxious to get back to Falkenstein , and have the whole business settled in a constitutional manner .
The ambassador was not sorry to get rid of the royal party ; and it was proposed that they should all sit down on the flying carpet , and wish themselves at home again .
But the queen would not hear of it : she said it was childish and impossible ; so the carriage was got ready for her , and she started without saying a word of good-bye to anyone .
The king , Benson , and the prince were not so particular , and they simply flew back to Falkenstein in the usual way , arriving there at 11.35 -- a week before her majesty .
The king at once held a Court ; the horns and tail of the monster were exhibited amidst general interest , and Benson and the prince were invited to state their claims .
Benson 's evidence was taken first .
He declined to say exactly where or how he killed the Firedrake .
There might be more of them left , he remarked , -- young ones , that would take a lot of killing , -- and he refused to part with his secret .
Only he claimed the reward , which was offered , if you remember , not to the man who killed the beast , but to him who brought its horns and tail .
This was allowed by the lawyers present to be very sound law ; and Benson was cheered by the courtiers , who decidedly preferred him to Prigio , and who , besides , thought he was going to be crown prince .
As for Lady Molinda , she was torn by the most painful feelings ; for , much as she hated Prigio , she could not bear the idea of marrying Benson .
Yet one or the other choice seemed certain .
Unhappy lady !
Perhaps no girl was ever more strangely beset by misfortune !
Prince Prigio was now called on to speak .
He admitted that the reward was offered for bringing the horns and tail , not for killing the monster .
But were the king 's intentions to go for nothing ?
When a subject only meant well , of course he had to suffer ; but when a king said one thing , was he not to be supposed to have meant another ?
Any fellow with a waggon could bring the horns and tail ; the difficult thing was to kill the monster .
If Benson 's claim was allowed , the royal prerogative of saying one thing and meaning something else was in danger .
On hearing this argument , the king so far forgot himself as to cry , `` Bravo , well said ! ''
and to clap his hands , whereon all the courtiers shouted and threw up their hats .
The prince then said that whoever had killed the monster could , of course , tell where to find him , and could bring his hoofs .
He was ready to do this himself .
Was Mr. Benson equally ready ?
On this being interpreted to him -- for he did not speak Pantouflian -- Benson grew pale with horror , but fell back on the proclamation .
He had brought the horns and tail , and so he must have the perquisites , and the Lady Molinda !
The king 's mind was so much confused by this time , that he determined to leave it to the Lady Molinda herself .
`` Which of them will you have , my dear ? ''
he asked , in a kind voice .
But poor Molinda merely cried .
Then his majesty was almost driven to say that he would give the reward to whoever produced the hoofs by that day week .
But no sooner had he said this than the prince brought them out of his wallet , and displayed them in open Court .
This ended the case ; and Benson , after being entertained with sherry and sandwiches in the steward 's room , was sent back to his master .
And I regret to say that his temper was not at all improved by his failure to better himself .
On the contrary , he was unusually cross and disagreeable for several days ; but we must , perhaps , make some allowance for his disappointment .
But if Benson was irritated , and suffered from the remarks of his fellow - servants , I do not think we can envy Prince Prigio .
Here he was , restored to his position indeed , but by no means to the royal favour .
For the king disliked him as much as ever , and was as angry as ever about the deaths of Enrico and Alphonso .
Nay , he was even more angry ; and , perhaps , not without reason .
He called up Prigio before the whole Court , and thereon the courtiers cheered like anything , but the king cried : `` Silence !
McDougal , drag the first man that shouts to the serpent-house in the zoological gardens , and lock him up with the rattlesnakes ! ''
After that the courtiers were very quiet .
`` Prince , '' said the king , as Prigio bowed before the throne , `` you are restored to your position , because I can not break my promise .
But your base and malevolent nature is even more conspicuously manifest in your selfish success than in your previous dastardly contempt of duty .
Why , confound you ! ''
cried the king , dropping the high style in which he had been speaking , and becoming the father , not the monarch , -- `` why , if you could kill the Firedrake , did you let your poor little brothers go and be b -- b -- b -- broiled ?
Eh !
what do you say , you sneak ?
` You did n't believe there were any Firedrakes ? '
That just comes of your eternal conceit and arrogance !
If you were clever enough to kill the creature -- and I admit that -- you were clever enough to know that what everybody said must be true .
` You have not generally found it so ? '
Well , you have this time , and let it be a lesson to you ; not that there is much comfort in that , for it is not likely you will ever have such another chance '' -- exactly the idea that had occurred to Benson .
Here the king wept , among the tears of the lord chief justice , the poet laureate -LRB- who had been awfully frightened when he heard of the rattlesnakes -RRB- , the maids of honour , the chaplain royal , and everyone but Colonel McDougal , a Scottish soldier of fortune , who maintained a military reserve .
When his majesty had recovered , he said to Prigio -LRB- who had not been crying , he was too much absorbed -RRB- : `` A king 's word is his bond .
Bring me a pen , somebody , and my cheque-book . ''
The royal cheque-book , bound in red morocco , was brought in by eight pages , with ink and a pen .
His majesty then filled up and signed the following satisfactory document -- -LRB- Ah !
my children , how I wish Mr. Arrowsmith would do as much for me ! -RRB-
: -LCB- A cheque for ten thousand purses , payable to Prince Prigio : p114.jpg -RCB- `` There ! ''
said his majesty , crossing his cheque and throwing sand over it , for blotting-paper had not yet been invented ; `` there , take that , and be off with you ! ''
Prince Prigio was respectfully but rapidly obeying his royal command , for he thought he had better cash the royal cheque as soon as possible , when his majesty yelled : `` Hi !
here !
come back !
I forgot something ; you 've got to marry Molinda ! ''
CHAPTER XVI .
A Melancholy Chapter .
The prince had gone some way , when the king called after him .
How he wished he had the seven-league boots on , or that he had the cap of darkness in his pocket !
If he had been so lucky , he would now have got back to Gluckstein , and crossed the border with Lady Rosalind .
A million of money may not seem much , but a pair of young people who really love each other could live happily on less than the cheque he had in his pocket .
However , the king shouted very loud , as he always did when he meant to be obeyed , and the prince sauntered slowly back again .
`` Prigio ! ''
said his majesty , `` where were you off to ?
Do n't you remember that this is your wedding-day ?
My proclamation offered , not only the money -LRB- which you have -RRB- , but the hand of the Lady Molinda , which the Court chaplain will presently make your own .
I congratulate you , sir ; Molinda is a dear girl . ''
`` I have the highest affection and esteem for my cousin , sir , '' said the prince , `` but -- '' `` I 'll never marry him ! ''
cried poor Molinda , kneeling at the throne , where her streaming eyes and hair made a pretty and touching picture .
`` Never !
I despise him ! ''
-LCB- Molinda before the King : p117.jpg -RCB- `` I was about to say , sir , '' the prince went on , `` that I can not possibly have the pleasure of wedding my cousin . ''
`` The family gibbet , I presume , is in good working order ? ''
asked the king of the family executioner , a tall gaunt man in black and scarlet , who was only employed in the case of members of the blood royal .
`` Never better , sire , '' said the man , bowing with more courtliness than his profession indicated .
`` Very well , '' said the king ; `` Prince Prigio , you have your choice .
There is the gallows , here is Lady Molinda .
My duty is painful , but clear .
A king 's word can not be broken .
Molly , or the gibbet ! ''
The prince bowed respectfully to Lady Molinda : `` Madam , my cousin , '' said he , `` your clemency will excuse my answer , and you will not misinterpret the apparent discourtesy of my conduct .
I am compelled , most unwillingly , to slight your charms , and to select the Extreme Rigour of the Law .
Executioner , lead on !
Do your duty ; for me , Prigio est pret ; '' -- for this was his motto , and meant that he was ready .
Poor Lady Molinda could not but be hurt by the prince 's preference for death over marriage to her , little as she liked him .
-LCB- The family executioner : p119.jpg -RCB- `` Is life , then , so worthless ?
and is Molinda so terrible a person that you prefer those arms , '' and she pointed to the gibbet , `` to these ? ''
-- here she held out her own , which were very white , round and pretty : for Molinda was a good-hearted girl , she could not bear to see Prigio put to death ; and then , perhaps , she reflected that there are worse positions than the queenship of Pantouflia .
For Alphonso was gone -- crying would not bring him back .
`` Ah , Madam ! ''
said the prince , `` you are forgiving -- '' `` For you are brave ! ''
said Molinda , feeling quite a respect for him .
`` But neither your heart nor mine is ours to give .
Since mine was another 's , I understand too well the feeling of yours !
Do not let us buy life at the price of happiness and honour . ''
Then , turning to the king , the prince said : `` Sir , is there no way but by death or marriage ?
You say you can not keep half only of your promise ; and that , if I accept the reward , I must also unite myself with my unwilling cousin .
Can not the whole proclamation be annulled , and will you consider the bargain void if I tear up this flimsy scroll ? ''
And here the prince fluttered the cheque for 1,000,000 pounds in the air .
For a moment the king was tempted ; but then he said to himself : `` Never mind , it 's only an extra penny on the income-tax . ''
Then , `` Keep your dross , '' he shouted , meaning the million ; `` but let me keep my promise .
To chapel at once , or -- '' and he pointed to the executioner .
`` The word of a king of Pantouflia is sacred . ''
`` And so is that of a crown prince , '' answered Prigio ; `` and mine is pledged to a lady . ''
`` She shall be a mourning bride , '' cried the king savagely , `` unless '' -- here he paused for a moment -- `` unless you bring me back Alphonso and Enrico , safe and well ! ''
The prince thought for the space of a flash of lightning .
`` I accept the alternative , '' he said , `` if your majesty will grant me my conditions . ''
`` Name them ! ''
said the king .
`` Let me be transported to Gluckstein , left there unguarded , and if , in three days , I do not return with my brothers safe and well , your majesty shall be spared a cruel duty .
Prigio of Pantouflia will perish by his own hand . ''
The king , whose mind did not work very quickly , took some minutes to think over it .
Then he saw that by granting the prince 's conditions , he would either recover his dear sons , or , at least , get rid of Prigio , without the unpleasantness of having him executed .
For , though some kings have put their eldest sons to death , and most have wished to do so , they have never been better loved by the people for their Roman virtue .
`` Honour bright ? ''
said the king at last .
`` Honour bright ! ''
answered the prince , and , for the first time in many months , the royal father and son shook hands .
`` For you , madam , '' said Prigio in a stately way to Lady Molinda , `` in less than a week I trust we shall be taking our vows at the same altar , and that the close of the ceremony which finds us cousins will leave us brother and sister . ''
Poor Molinda merely stared ; for she could not imagine what he meant .
In a moment he was gone ; and having taken , by the king 's permission , the flying carpet , he was back at the ambassador 's house in Gluckstein .
CHAPTER XVII .
The Black Cat and the Brethren !
Who was glad to see the prince , if it was not Lady Rosalind ?
The white roses of her cheeks turned to red roses in a moment , and then back to white again , they were so alarmed at the change .
So the two went into the gardens together , and talked about a number of things ; but at last the prince told her that , before three days were over , all would be well , or all would be over with him .
For either he would have brought his brothers back , sound and well , to Falkenstein , or he would not survive his dishonour .
`` It is no more than right , '' he said ; `` for had I gone first , neither of them would have been sent to meet the monster after I had fallen .
And I should have fallen , dear Rosalind , if I had faced the Firedrake before I knew you . ''
Then when she asked him why , and what good she had done him , he told her all the story ; and how , before he fell in love with her , he did n't believe in fairies , or Firedrakes , or caps of darkness , or anything nice and impossible , but only in horrid useless facts , and chemistry , and geology , and arithmetic , and mathematics , and even political economy .
And the Firedrake would have made a mouthful of him , then .
So she was delighted when she heard this , almost as much delighted as she was afraid that he might fail in the most difficult adventure .
For it was one thing to egg on a Remora to kill a Firedrake , and quite another to find the princes if they were alive , and restore them if they were dead !
But the prince said he had his plan , and he stayed that night at the ambassador 's .
Next morning he rose very early , before anyone else was up , that he might not have to say `` Good-bye '' to Lady Rosalind .
Then he flew in a moment to the old lonely castle , where nobody went for fear of ghosts , ever since the Court retired to Falkenstein .
How still it was , how deserted ; not a sign of life , and yet the prince was looking everywhere for some living thing .
He hunted the castle through in vain , and then went out to the stable-yard ; but all the dogs , of course , had been taken away , and the farmers had offered homes to the poultry .
At last , stretched at full length in a sunny place , the prince found a very old , half-blind , miserable cat .
The poor creature was lean , and its fur had fallen off in patches ; it could no longer catch birds , nor even mice , and there was nobody to give it milk .
But cats do not look far into the future ; and this old black cat -- Frank was his name -- had got a breakfast somehow , and was happy in the sun .
The prince stood and looked at him pityingly , and he thought that even a sick old cat was , in some ways , happier than most men .
`` Well , '' said the prince at last , `` he could not live long anyway , and it must be done .
He will feel nothing . ''
Then he drew the sword of sharpness , and with one turn of his wrist cut the cat 's head clean off .
-LCB- Poor old Frank : p128.jpg -RCB- It did not at once change into a beautiful young lady , as perhaps you expect ; no , that was improbable , and , as the prince was in love already , would have been vastly inconvenient .
The dead cat lay there , like any common cat .
Then the prince built up a heap of straw , with wood on it , and there he laid poor puss , and set fire to the pile .
Very soon there was nothing of old black Frank left but ashes !
Then the prince ran upstairs to the fairy cupboard , his heart beating loudly with excitement .
The sun was shining through the arrow-shot window , all the yellow motes were dancing in its rays .
The light fell on the strange heaps of fairy things -- talismans and spells .
The prince hunted about here and there , and at last he discovered six ancient water - vessels of black leather , each with a silver plate on it , and on the plate letters engraved .
This was what was written on the plates : AQVA .
DE .
FONTE .
LEONVM .
-LCB- 130 -RCB- `` Thank heaven ! ''
said the prince .
`` I thought they were sure to have brought it ! ''
Then he took one of the old black-leather bottles , and ran downstairs again to the place where he had burned the body of the poor old sick cat .
He opened the bottle , and poured a few drops of the water on the ashes and the dying embers .
Up there sprang a tall , white flame of fire , waving like a tongue of light ; and forth from the heap jumped the most beautiful , strong , funny , black cat that ever was seen !
-LCB- The Prince and the bottles : p130.jpg -RCB- It was Frank as he had been in the vigour of his youth ; and he knew the prince at once , and rubbed himself against him and purred .
The prince lifted up Frank and kissed his nose for joy ; and a bright tear rolled down on Frank 's face , and made him rub his nose with his paw in the most comical manner .
Then the prince set him down , and he ran round and round after his tail ; and , lastly , cocked his tail up , and marched proudly after the prince into the castle .
`` Oh , Frank ! ''
said Prince Prigio , `` no cat since the time of Puss in Boots was ever so well taken care of as you shall be .
For , if the fairy water from the Fountain of Lions can bring you back to life -- why , there is a chance for Alphonso and Enrico ! ''
Then Prigio bustled about , got ready some cold luncheon from the store - room , took all his fairy things that he was likely to need , sat down with them on the flying carpet , and wished himself at the mountain of the Firedrake .
`` I have the king now , '' he said ; `` for if I ca n't find the ashes of my brothers , by Jove !
I 'll !
-- '' Do you know what he meant to do , if he could not find his brothers ?
Let every child guess !
Off he flew ; and there he was in a second , just beside poor Alphono 's garden-engine .
Then Prigio , seeing a little heap of grey ashes beside the engine , watered them with the fairy water ; and up jumped Alphonso , as jolly as ever , his sword in his hand .
`` Hullo , Prigio ! ''
cried he ; `` are you come after the monster too ?
I 've been asleep , and I had a kind of dream that he beat me .
But the pair of us will tackle him .
How is Molinda ? ''
`` Prettier than ever , '' said Prigio ; `` but anxious about you .
However , the Firedrake 's dead and done for ; so never mind him .
But I left Enrico somewhere about .
Just you sit down and wait a minute , till I fetch him . ''
The prince said this , because he did not wish Alphonso to know that he and Enrico had not had quite the best of it in the affair with the monster .
`` All right , old fellow , '' says Alphonso ; `` but have you any luncheon with you ?
Never was so hungry in my life ! ''
Prince Prigio had thought of this , and he brought out some cold sausage -LRB- to which Alphonso was partial -RRB- and some bread , with which the younger prince expressed himself satisfied .
Then Prigio went up the hill some way , first warning Alphonso not to sit on his carpet for fear of accidents like that which happened to Benson .
In a hollow of the hill , sure enough there was the sword of Enrico , the diamonds of the hilt gleaming in the sun .
And there was a little heap of grey ashes .
The prince poured a few drops of the water from the Fountain of Lions on them , and up , of course , jumped Enrico , just as Alphonso had done .
`` Sleepy old chap you are , Enrico , '' said the prince ; `` but come on , Alphonso will have finished the grub unless we look smart . ''
So back they came , in time to get their share of what was going ; and they drank the Remora 's very good health , when Prigio told them about the fight .
But neither of them ever knew that they had been dead and done for ; because Prigio invented a story that the mountain was enchanted , and that , as long as the Firedrake lived , everyone who came there fell asleep .
He did tell them about the flying carpet , however , which of course did not much surprise them , because they had read all about it in the Arabian Nights and other historical works .
`` And now I 'll show you fun ! ''
said Prigio ; and he asked them both to take their seats on the carpet , and wished to be in the valley of the Remora .
There they were in a moment , among the old knights whom , if you remember , the Remora had frozen into stone .
There was quite a troop of them , in all sorts of armour -- Greek and Roman , and Knight Templars like Front de Boeuf and Brian du Bois Gilbert -- all the brave warriors that had tried to fight the Remora since the world began .
Then Prigio gave each of his brothers some of the water in their caps , and told them to go round pouring a drop or two on each frozen knight .
And as they did it , lo and behold !
each knight came alive , with his horse , and lifted his sword and shouted : `` Long live Prince Prigio ! ''
in Greek , Latin , Egyptian , French , German , and Spanish , -- all of which the prince perfectly understood , and spoke like a native .
So he marshalled them in order , and sent them off to ride to Falkenstein and cry : `` Prince Prigio is coming ! ''
Off they went , the horses ' hoofs clattering , banners flying , sunshine glittering on the spear-points .
Off they rode to Falkenstein ; and when the king saw them come galloping in , I can tell you he had no more notion of hanging Prigio .
-LCB- Riding off to Falkenstein : p136.jpg -RCB- CHAPTER XVIII .
The Very Last .
The princes returned to Gluckstein on the carpet , and went to the best inn , where they dined together and slept .
Next morning they , and the ambassador , who had been told all the story , and Lady Rosalind , floated comfortably on the carpet back to Falkenstein , where the king wept like anything on the shoulders of Alphonso and Enrico .
They could not make out why he cried so , nor why Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena cried ; but soon they were all laughing and happy again .
But then -- would you believe he could be so mean ?
-- he refused to keep his royal promise , and restore Prigio to his crown-princeship !
Kings are like that .
But Prigio , very quietly asking for the head of the Firedrake , said he 'd pour the magic water on that , and bring the Firedrake back to life again , unless his majesty behaved rightly .
This threat properly frightened King Grognio , and he apologised .
Then the king shook hands with Prigio in public , and thanked him , and said he was proud of him .
As to Lady Rosalind , the old gentleman quite fell in love with her , and he sent at once to the Chaplain Royal to get into his surplice , and marry all the young people off at once , without waiting for wedding-cakes , and milliners , and all the rest of it .
Now , just as they were forming a procession to march into church , who should appear but the queen !
Her majesty had been travelling by post all the time , and , luckily , had heard of none of the doings since Prigio , Benson , and the king left Gluckstein .
I say luckily because if she had heard of them , she would not have believed a word of them .
But when she saw Alphonso and Enrico , she was much pleased , and said : -LCB- The Queen and her sons : p140.jpg -RCB- `` Naughty boys !
Where have you been hiding ?
The king had some absurd story about your having been killed by a fabulous monster .
Bah !
do n't tell me .
I always said you would come back after a little trip -- did n't I , Prigio ? ''
`` Certainly , madam , '' said Prigio ; `` and I said so , too .
Did n't I say so ? ''
And all the courtiers cried : `` Yes , you did ; '' but some added , to themselves , '' He always says , ` Did n't I say so ? ' ''
Then the queen was introduced to Lady Rosalind , and she said it was `` rather a short engagement , but she supposed young people understood their own affairs best . ''
And they do !
So the three pairs were married , with the utmost rejoicings ; and her majesty never , her whole life long , could be got to believe that anything unusual had occurred .
The honeymoon of Prince Prigio and the Crown Princess Rosalind was passed at the castle , where the prince had been deserted by the Court .
But now it was delightfully fitted up ; and Master Frank marched about the house with his tail in the air , as if the place belonged to him .
Now , on the second day of their honeymoon , the prince and princess were sitting in the garden together , and the prince said , `` Are you quite happy , my dear ? ''
and Rosalind said , `` Yes ; quite . ''
But the prince did not like the tone of her voice , and he said : `` No , there 's something ; do tell me what it is . ''
`` Well , '' said Rosalind , putting her head on his shoulder , and speaking very low , `` I want everybody to love you as much as I do .
No , not quite so very much , -- but I want them to like you .
Now they ca n't , because they are afraid of you ; for you are so awfully clever .
Now , could n't you take the wishing cap , and wish to be no cleverer than other people ?
Then everybody would like you ! ''
The prince thought a minute , then he said : `` Your will is law , my dear ; anything to please you .
Just wait a minute ! ''
Then he ran upstairs , for the last time , to the fairy garret , and he put on the wishing cap .
`` No , '' thought he to himself , `` I wo n't wish that .
Every man has one secret from his wife , and this shall be mine . ''
Then he said aloud : `` I WISH TO SEEM NO CLEVERER THAN OTHER PEOPLE . ''
Then he ran downstairs again , and the princess noticed a great difference in him -LRB- though , of course , there was really none at all -RRB- , and so did everyone .
For the prince remained as clever as ever he had been ; but , as nobody observed it , he became the most popular prince , and finally the best-beloved king who had ever sat on the throne of Pantouflia .
But occasionally Rosalind would say , `` I do believe , my dear , that you are really as clever as ever ! ''
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Prigio_From_"His_Own_Fairy_Book".txt.out
CHAPTER I. -- How the Fairies were not Invited to Court ONCE upon a time there reigned in Pantouflia a king and a queen .
With almost everything else to make them happy , they wanted one thing : they had no children .
This vexed the king even more than the queen , who was very clever and learned , and who had hated dolls when she was a child .
However , she too , in spite of all the books she read and all the pictures she painted , would have been glad enough to be the mother of a little prince .
The king was anxious to consult the fairies , but the queen would not hear of such a thing .
She did not believe in fairies : she said that they had never existed ; and that she maintained , though The History of the Royal Family was full of chapters about nothing else .
Well , at long and at last they had a little boy , who was generally regarded as the finest baby that had ever been seen .
Even her majesty herself remarked that , though she could never believe all the courtiers told her , yet he certainly was a fine child -- a very fine child .
Now , the time drew near for the christening party , and the king and queen were sitting at breakfast in their summer parlour talking over it .
It was a splendid room , hung with portraits of the royal ancestors .
There was Cinderella , the grandmother of the reigning monarch , with her little foot in her glass slipper thrust out before her .
There was the Marquis de Carabas , who , as everyone knows , was raised to the throne as prince consort after his marriage with the daughter of the king of the period .
On the arm of the throne was seated his celebrated cat , wearing boots .
There , too , was a portrait of a beautiful lady , sound asleep : this was Madame La Belle au Bois-dormant , also an ancestress of the royal family .
Many other pictures of celebrated persons were hanging on the walls .
`` You have asked all the right people , my dear ? ''
said the king .
`` Everyone who should be asked , '' answered the queen .
`` People are so touchy on these occasions , '' said his majesty .
`` You have not forgotten any of our aunts ? ''
`` No ; the old cats ! ''
replied the queen ; for the king 's aunts were old-fashioned , and did not approve of her , and she knew it .
`` They are very kind old ladies in their way , '' said the king ; `` and were nice to me when I was a boy . ''
Then he waited a little , and remarked : `` The fairies , of course , you have invited ?
It has always been usual , in our family , on an occasion like this ; and I think we have neglected them a little of late . ''
`` How can you be so absurd ?
'' cried the queen .
`` How often must I tell you that there are no fairies ?
And even if there were -- but , no matter ; pray let us drop the subject . ''
`` They are very old friends of our family , my dear , that 's all , '' said the king timidly .
`` Often and often they have been godmothers to us .
One , in particular , was most kind and most serviceable to Cinderella I. , my own grandmother . ''
`` Your grandmother ! ''
interrupted her majesty .
`` Fiddle-de-dee !
If anyone puts such nonsense into the head of my little Prigio -- '' But here the baby was brought in by the nurse , and the queen almost devoured it with kisses .
And so the fairies were not invited !
It was an extraordinary thing , but none of the nobles could come to the christening party when they learned that the fairies had not been asked .
Some were abroad ; several were ill ; a few were in prison among the Saracens ; others were captives in the dens of ogres .
The end of it was that the king and queen had to sit down alone , one at each end of a very long table , arrayed with plates and glasses for a hundred guests -- for a hundred guests who never came !
`` Any soup , my dear ? ''
shouted the king , through a speaking-trumpet ; when , suddenly , the air was filled with a sound like the rustling of the wings of birds .
Flitter , flitter , flutter , went the noise ; and when the queen looked up , lo and behold !
on every seat was a lovely fairy , dressed in green , each with a most interesting-looking parcel in her hand .
Do n't you like opening parcels ?
The king did , and he was most friendly and polite to the fairies .
But the queen , though she saw them distinctly , took no notice of them .
You see , she did not believe in fairies , nor in her own eyes , when she saw them .
So she talked across the fairies to the king , just as if they had not been there ; but the king behaved as politely as if they were real -- which , of course , they were .
When dinner was over , and when the nurse had brought in the baby , all the fairies gave him the most magnificent presents .
One offered a purse which could never be empty ; and one a pair of seven-leagued boots ; and another a cap of darkness , that nobody might see the prince when he put it on ; and another a wishing-cap ; and another a carpet , on which , when he sat , he was carried wherever he wished to find himself .
Another made him beautiful for ever ; and another , brave ; and another , lucky : but the last fairy of all , a cross old thing , crept up and said , `` My child , you shall be too clever ! ''
This fairy 's gift would have pleased the queen , if she had believed in it , more than anything else , because she was so clever herself .
But she took no notice at all ; and the fairies went each to her own country , and none of them stayed there at the palace , where nobody believed in them , except the king , a little .
But the queen tossed all their nice boots and caps , carpets , purses , swords , and all , away into a dark lumber-room ; for , of course , she thought that they were all nonsense , and merely old rubbish out of books , or pantomime `` properties . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Two -RSB- CHAPTER II .
-- Prince Prigio and his family WELL , the little prince grew up .
I think I 've told you that his name was Prigio -- did I not ?
Well , that was his name .
You can not think how clever he was .
He argued with his nurse as soon as he could speak , which was very soon .
He argued that he did not like to be washed , because the soap got into his eyes .
However , when he was told all about the pores of the skin , and how they could not be healthy if he was not washed , he at once ceased to resist , for he was very reasonable .
He argued with his father that he did not see why there should be kings who were rich , while beggars were poor ; and why the king -- who was a little greedy -- should have poached eggs and plum-cake at afternoon tea , while many other persons went without dinner .
The king was so surprised and hurt at these remarks that he boxed the prince 's ears , saying , `` I 'll teach you to be too clever , my lad . ''
Then he remembered the awful curse of the oldest fairy , and was sorry for the rudeness of the queen .
And when the prince , after having his ears boxed , said that `` force was no argument , '' the king went away in a rage .
Indeed , I can not tell you how the prince was hated by all !
He would go down into the kitchen , and show the cook how to make soup .
He would visit the poor people 's cottage , and teach them how to make the beds , and how to make plum pudding out of turnip-tops , and venison cutlets out of rusty bacon .
He showed the fencing-master how to fence , and the professional cricketer how to bowl , and instructed the rat-catcher in breeding terriers .
He set sums to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , and assured the Astronomer Royal that the sun does not go round the earth -- which , for my part , I believe it does .
The young ladies of the court disliked dancing with him , in spite of his good looks , because he was always asking , `` Have you read this ? ''
and `` Have you read that ? ''
-- and when they said they had n't , he sneered ; and when they said they had , he found them out .
He found out all his tutors and masters in the same horrid way ; correcting the accent of his French teacher , and trying to get his German tutor not to eat peas with his knife .
He also endeavoured to teach the queen-dowager , his grandmother , an art with which she had long been perfectly familiar !
In fact , he knew everything better than anybody else ; and the worst of it was that he did : and he never was in the wrong , and he always said , `` Did n't I tell you so ? ''
And , what was more , he had !
-LSB- Illustration : page 12 -RSB- As time went on , Prince Prigio had two younger brothers , whom everybody liked : They were not a bit clever , but jolly .
Prince Alphonso , the third son , was round , fat , good-humoured , and as brave as a lion .
Prince Enrico , the second , was tall , thin , and a `` little sad , but never too clever . ''
Both were in love with two of their own cousins -LRB- with the approval of their dear parents -RRB- ; and all the world said , `` What nice , unaffected princes they are ! ''
But Prigio nearly got the country into several wars by being too clever for the foreign ambassadors .
Now , as Pantouflia was a rich , lazy country , which hated fighting , this was very unpleasant , and did not make people love Prince Prigio any better .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Three -RSB- CHAPTER III .
-- About the Firedrake .
OF all the people who did not like Prigio , his own dear papa , King Grognio , disliked him most .
For the king knew he was not clever himself .
When he was in the counting-house , counting out his money , and when he happened to say , `` Sixteen shillings and fourteen and twopence are three pounds , fifteen , '' it made him wild to hear Prigio whisper , `` One pound , ten and twopence , '' -- which , of course , it is .
And the king was afraid that Prigio would conspire , and get made king himself -- which was the last thing Prigio really wanted .
He much preferred to idle about , and know everything without seeming to take any trouble .
Well , the king thought and thought .
How was he to get Prigio out of the way , and make Enrico or Alphonso his successor ?
He read in books about it ; and all the books showed that , if a king sent his three sons to do anything , it was always the youngest who did it , and got the crown .
And he wished he had the chance .
Well , it arrived at last .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 15 -RSB- There was a very hot summer !
It began to be hot in March . '
All the rivers were dried up .
The grass did not grow .
The corn did not grow .
The thermometers exploded with heat .
The barometers stood at Set Fair .
The people were much distressed , and came and broke the palace win-dows -- as they usually do when things go wrong in Pantouflia .
The king consulted the learned men about the Court , who told him that probably a FIREDRAKE was in the neighbourhood .
Now , the Firedrake is a beast , or bird , about the bigness of an elephant .
Its body is made of iron , and it is always red-hot .
A more terrible and cruel beast can not be imagined ; for , if you go near it , you are at once broiled by the Firedrake .
But the king was not ill-pleased : `` for , '' thought he , `` of course my three sons must go after the brute , the eldest first ; and , as usual , it will kill the first two , and be beaten by the youngest .
It is a little hard on Enrico , poor boy ; but anything to get rid of that Prigio ! ''
Then the king went to Prigio , and said that his country was in danger , and that he was determined to leave the crown to whichever of them would bring him the horns -LRB- for it has horns -RRB- and tail of the Firedrake .
`` It is an awkward brute to tackle , '' the king said , `` but you are the oldest , my lad ; go where glory waits you !
Put on your armour , and be off with you ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 17 -RSB- This the king said , hoping that either the Firedrake would roast Prince Prigio alive -LRB- which he could easily do , as I have said ; for he is all over as hot as a red-hot poker -RRB- , or that , if the prince succeeded , at least his country would be freed from the monster .
But the prince , who was lying on the sofa doing sums in compound division , for fun , said in the politest way : `` Thanks to the education your majesty has given me , I have learned that the Firedrake , like the siren , the fairy , and so forth , is a fabulous animal which does not exist .
But even granting , for the sake of argument , that there is a Firedrake , your majesty is well aware that there is no kind of use in sending me .
It is always the eldest son who goes out first , and comes to grief on these occasions , and it is always the third son that succeeds .
Send Alphonso '' -LRB- this was the youngest brother -RRB- , `` and he will do the trick at once .
At least , if he fails , it will be most unusual , and Enrico can try his luck . ''
Then he went back to his arithmetic and his slate , and the king had to send for Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico .
They both came in very warm ; for they had been whipping tops , and the day was unusually hot .
`` Look here , '' said the king , `` just you two younger ones look at Prigio !
You see how hot it is , and how coolly he takes it , and the country suffering ; and all on account of a Firedrake , you know , which has apparently built his nest not far off .
Well , I have asked that lout of a brother of yours to kill it , and he says -- '' `` That he does not believe in Firedrakes , '' interrupted Prigio , `` The weather 's warm enough without going out hunting ! ''
`` Not believe in Firedrakes ! ''
cried Alphonso .
`` I wonder what you do believe in !
Just let me get at the creature ! ''
for he was as brave as a lion .
`` Hi !
Page , my chain-armour , helmet , lance , and buckler !
A Molinda !
A Molinda !
'' which was his war-cry .
The page ran to get the armour ; but it was so uncommonly hot that he dropped it , and put his fingers in his mouth , crying !
`` You had better put on flannels , Alphonso , for this kind of work , '' said Prigio .
`` And if I were you , I 'd take a light garden-engine , full of water , to squirt at the enemy . ''
`` Happy thought ! ''
said Alphonso .
`` I will ! ''
And off he went , kissed his dear Molinda , bade her keep a lot of dances for him -LRB- there was to be a dance when he had killed the Firedrake -RRB- , and then he rushed to the field !
But he never came back any more !
Everyone wept bitterly -- everyone but Prince Prigio ; for he thought it was a practical joke , and said that Alphonso had taken the opportunity to start off on his travels and see the world .
`` There is some dreadful mistake , sir , '' said Prigio to the king .
`` You know as well as I do that the youngest son has always succeeded , up to now .
But I entertain great hopes of Enrico ! ''
And he grinned ; for he fancied it was all nonsense , and that there were no Firedrakes .
Enrico was present when Prigio was consoling the king in this unfeeling way .
`` Enrico , my boy , '' said his majesty , `` the task awaits you , and the honour .
When you come back with the horns and tail of the Fire-drake , you shall be crown prince ; and Prigio shall be made an usher at the Grammar School -- it is all he is fit for . ''
Enrico was not quite so confident as Alphonso had been .
He insisted on making his will ; and he wrote a poem about the pleasures and advantages of dying young .
This is part of it : The violet is a blossom sweet , That droops before the day is done -- Slain by thine overpowering heat , O Sun !
And I , like that sweet purple flower , May roast , or boil , or broil , or bake , If burned by thy terrific power , Firedrake !
This poem comforted Enrico more or less , and he showed it to Prigio .
But the prince only laughed , and said that the second line of the last verse was not very good ; for violets do not `` roast , or boil , or broil , or bake . ''
Enrico tried to improve it , but could not .
So he read it to his cousin , Lady Kathleena , just as it was ; and she cried over it -LRB- though I do n't think she understood it -RRB- ; and Enrico cried a little , too .
However , next day he started , with a spear , a patent refrigerator , and a lot of the bottles people throw at fires to put them out .
But he never came back again !
After shedding torrents of tears , the king summoned Prince Prigio to his presence .
`` Dastard ! ''
he said .
`` Poltroon !
Your turn , which should have come first , has arrived at last .
You must fetch me the horns and the tail of the Fired rake .
Probably you will be grilled , thank goodness ; but who will give me back Enrico and Alphonso ? ''
`` Indeed , your majesty , '' said Prigio , `` you must permit me to correct your policy .
Your only reason for dispatching your sons in pursuit of this dangerous but I believe fabulous animal , was to ascertain which of us would most worthily succeed to your throne , at the date -- long may it be deferred !
-- of your lamented decease .
Now , there can be no further question about the matter .
I , unworthy as I am , represent the sole hope of the royal family .
Therefore to send me after the Firedrake were * both dangerous and unnecessary .
Dangerous , because , if he treats me as you say he did my brothers -- my unhappy brothers , -- the throne of Pantouflia will want an heir .
But , if I do come back alive -- why , I can not be more the true heir than I am at present ; now can I ?
Ask the Lord Chief Justice , if you do n't believe me . ''
* Subjunctive mood !
He was a great grammarian !
These arguments were so clearly and undeniably correct that the king , unable to answer them , withdrew into a solitary place where he could express himself with freedom , and give rein to his passions .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Four -RSB- CHAPTER IV .
-- How Prince Prigio was deserted by Everybody MEANWHILE , Prince Prigio had to suffer many unpleasant things .
Though he was the crown prince -LRB- and though his arguments were unanswerable -RRB- , everybody shunned him for a coward .
The queen , who did not believe in Firedrakes , alone took his side .
He was not only avoided by all , but he had most disagreeable scenes with his own cousins , Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena .
In the garden Lady Molinda met him walking alone , and did not bow to him .
`` Dear Molly , '' said the prince , who liked her , `` how have I been so unfortunate as to offend you ? ''
`` My name , sir , is Lady Molinda , '' she said , very proudly ; `` and you have sent your own brother to his grave ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 24 -RSB- `` Oh , excuse me , '' said the prince , `` I am certain he has merely gone off on his travels .
He 'll come back when he 's tired : there are no Firedrakes ; a French writer says they are ` purement fabuleux , purely fabulous , you know . ''
`` Prince Alphonso has gone on his travels , and will come back when he is tired !
And was he then -- tired -- of me ? ''
cried poor Molinda , bursting into tears , and forgetting her dignity .
`` Oh !
I beg your pardon , I never noticed ; I 'm sure I am very sorry , '' cried the prince , who , never having been in love himself , never thought of other people .
And he tried to take Molinda 's hand , but she snatched it from him and ran away through the garden to the palace , leaving Prince Prigio to feel foolish , for once , and ashamed .
As for Lady Kathleena , she swept past him like a queen , without a word .
So the prince , for all his cleverness , was not happy .
After several days had gone by , the king returned from the solitary place where he had been speaking his mind .
He now felt calmer and better ; and so at last he came back to the palace .
But on seeing Prince Prigio , who was lolling in a hammock , translating Egyptian hieroglyphs into French poetry for his mother , the king broke out afresh , and made use of the most cruel and impolite expressions .
At last , he gave orders that all the Court should pack up and move to a distant city ; and that Prince Prigio should be left alone in the palace by himself .
For he was quite unendurable , the king said , and he could not trust his own temper when he thought of him .
And he grew so fierce , that even the queen was afraid of him now .
The poor queen cried a good deal ; Prigio being her favourite son , on account of his acknowledged ability and talent .
But the rest of the courtiers were delighted at leaving Prince Prigio behind .
For his part , he , very good-naturedly , showed them the best and shortest road to Falkenstein , the city where they were going ; and easily proved that neither the chief secretary for geography , nor the general of the army , knew anything about the matter -- which , indeed , they did not .
The ungrateful courtiers left Prigio with hoots and yells , for they disliked him so much that they forgot he would be king one day .
He therefore reminded them of this little fact in future history , which made them feel uncomfortable enough , and then lay down in his hammock and went to sleep .
When he wakened , the air was cold and the day was beginning to grow dark .
Prince Prigio thought he would go down and dine at a tavern in the town , for no servants had been left with him .
But what was his annoyance when he found that his boots , his sword , his cap , his cloak -- all his clothes , in fact , except those he wore , -- had been taken away by the courtiers , merely to spite him !
His wardrobe had been ransacked , and everything that had not been carried off had been cut up , burned , and destroyed .
Never was such a spectacle of wicked mischief .
It was as if hay had been made of everything he possessed .
What was worse , he had not a penny in his pocket to buy new things ; and his father had stopped his allowance of fifty thousand pounds a month .
Can you imagine anything more cruel and unjust than this conduct ?
for it was not the prince 's fault that he was so clever .
The cruel fairy had made him so .
But , even if the prince had been born clever -LRB- as may have happened to you -RRB- , was he to be blamed for that ?
The other people were just as much in fault for being born so stupid ; but the world , my dear children , can never be induced to remember this .
If you are clever , you will find it best not to let people know it -- if you want them to like you .
Well , here was the prince in a pretty plight .
Not a pound in his pocket , not a pair of boots to wear , not even a cap to cover his head from the rain ; nothing but cold meat to eat , and never a servant to answer the bell .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Five -RSB- CHAPTER V. -- What Prince Prigio found in the garret .
THE prince walked from room to room of the palace ; but , unless he wrapped himself up in a curtain , there was nothing for him to wear when he went out in the rain .
At last he climbed up a turret-stair in the very oldest part of the castle , where he had never been before ; and at the very top was a little round room , a kind of garret .
The prince pushed in the door with some difficulty -- not that it was locked , but the handle was rusty , and the wood had swollen with the damp .
The room was very dark ; only the last grey light of the rainy evening came through a slit of a window , one of those narrow windows that they used to fire arrows out of in old times .
But in the dusk the prince saw a heap of all sorts of things lying on the floor and on the table .
There were two caps ; he put one on -- an old , grey , ugly cap it was , made of felt .
There was a pair of boots ; and he kicked off his slippers , and got into them .
They were a good deal worn , but fitted as if they had been made for him .
On the table was a purse with just three gold coins -- old ones , too -- in it ; and this , as you may fancy , the prince was very well pleased to put in his pocket .
A sword , with a sword-belt , he buckled about his waist ; and the rest of the articles , a regular collection of odds and ends , he left just where they were lying .
Then he ran downstairs , and walked out of the hall door .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Six -RSB- CHAPTER VI .
-- What Happened to Prince Prigio in Town BY this time the prince was very hungry .
The town was just three miles off ; but he had such a royal appetite , that he did not like to waste it on bad cookery , and the people of the royal town were bad cooks .
`` I wish I were in ` The Bear , ' at Gluck-stein , '' said he to himself ; for he remembered that there was a very good cook there .
But , then , the town was twenty-one leagues away -- sixty-three long miles !
No sooner had the prince said this , and taken just three steps , than he found himself at the door of the `` Bear Inn '' at Gluckstein !
`` This is the most extraordinary dream , '' said he to himself ; for he was far too clever , of course , to believe in seven-league boots .
Yet he had a pair on at that very moment , and it was they which had carried him in three strides from the palace to Gluckstein !
The truth is , that the prince , in looking about the palace for clothes , had found his way into that very old lumber-room where the magical gifts of the fairies had been thrown by his clever mother , who did not believe in them .
But this , of course , the prince did not know .
Now you should be told that seven-league boots only take those prodigious steps when you say you want to go a long distance .
Otherwise they would be very inconvenient -- when you only want to cross the room , for example .
Perhaps this has not been explained to you by your governess ?
Well , the prince walked into `` The Bear , '' and it seemed odd to him that nobody took any notice of him .
And yet his face was as well known as that of any man in Pantouflia ; for everybody had seen it , at least in pictures .
He was so puzzled by not being attended to as usual , that he quite forgot to take off his cap .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 31 -RSB- He sat down at a table , however , and shouted '' Kellner !
'' at which all the waiters jumped , and looked round in every direction , but nobody came to him .
At first he thought they were too busy , but presently another explanation occurred to him .
`` The king , '' said he to himself , `` has threatened to execute anybody who speaks to me , or helps me in any way .
Well , I do n't mean to starve in the midst of plenty , anyhow ; here goes ! ''
The prince rose , and went to the table in the midst of the room , where a huge roast turkey had just been placed .
He helped himself to half the breast , some sausages , chestnut stuffing , bread sauce , potatoes , and a bottle of red wine -- Burgundy .
He then went back to a table in a corner , where he dined very well , nobody taking any notice of him .
When he had finished , he sat watching the other people dining , and smoking his cigarette .
As he was sitting thus , a very tall man , an officer in the uniform of the Guards , came in , and , walking straight to the prince 's table , said : `` Kellner , clean this table , and bring in the bill of fare . ''
With these words , the officer sat down suddenly in the prince 's lap , as if he did not see him at all .
He was a heavy man , and the prince , enraged at the insult , pushed him away and jumped to his feet .
As he did so , his cap dropped off .
The officer fell on his knees at once , crying : `` Pardon , my prince , pardon !
I never saw you ! ''
This was more than the prince could be expected to believe .
`` Nonsense !
Count Frederick von Matterhorn , '' he said ; `` you must be intoxicated .
Sir !
you have insulted your prince and your superior officer .
Consider yourself under arrest !
You shall be sent to a prison to-morrow . ''
On this , the poor officer appealed piteously to everybody in the tavern .
They all declared that they had not seen the prince , nor ever had an idea that he was doing them the honour of being in the neighbourhood of their town .
More and more offended , and convinced that there was a conspiracy to annoy and insult him , the prince shouted for the landlord , called for his bill , threw down his three pieces of gold without asking for change , and went into the street .
`` It is a disgraceful conspiracy , '' he said .
`` The king shall answer for this !
I shall write to the newspapers at once ! ''
He was not put in a better temper by the way in which people hustled him in the street .
They ran against him exactly as if they did not see him , and then staggered back in the greatest surprise , looking in every direction for the person they had jostled .
In one of these encounters , the prince pushed so hard against a poor old beggar woman that she fell down .
As he was usually most kind and polite , he pulled off his cap to beg her pardon , when , behold , the beggar woman gave one dreadful scream , and fainted !
A crowd was collecting , and the prince , forgetting that he had thrown down all his money in the tavern , pulled out his purse .
Then he remembered what he had done , and expected to find it empty ; but , lo , there were three pieces of gold in it !
Overcome with surprise , he thrust the money into the woman 's hand , and put on his cap again .
In a moment the crowd , which had been staring at him , rushed away in every direction , with cries of terror , declaring that there was a magician in the town , and a fellow who could appear and disappear at pleasure !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 35 -RSB- By this time , you or I , or anyone who was not so extremely clever as Prince Prigio , would have understood what was the matter .
He had put on , without knowing it , not only the seven-league boots , but the cap of darkness , and had taken Fortunatus 's purse , which could never be empty , however often you took all the money out .
All those and many other delightful wares the fairies had given him at his christening , and the prince had found them in the dark garret .
But the prince was so extremely wise , and learned , and scientific , that he did not believe in fairies , nor in fairy gifts .
`` It is indigestion , '' he said to himself : `` those sausages were not of the best ; and that Burgundy was extremely strong .
Things are not as they appear . ''
Here , as he was arguing with himself , he was nearly run over by a splendid carriage and six , the driver of which never took the slightest notice of him .
Annoyed at this , the prince leaped up behind , threw down the two footmen , who made no resistance , and so was carried to the door of a magnificent palace .
He was determined to challenge the gentleman who was in the carriage ; but , noticing that he had a very beautiful young lady with him , whom he had never seen before , he followed them into the house , not wishing to alarm the girl , and meaning to speak to the gentleman when he found him alone .
A great ball was going on ; but , as usual , nobody took any notice of the prince .
He walked among the guests , being careful not to jostle them , and listening to their conversation .
It was all about himself !
Everyone had heard of his disgrace , and almost everyone cried `` Serve him right ! ''
They said that the airs he gave himself were quite unendurable -- that nothing was more rude than to be always in the right -- that cleverness might be carried far too far -- that it was better even to be born stupid -LRB- `` Like the rest of you , '' thought the prince -RRB- ; and , in fact , nobody had a good word for him .
Yes , one had !
It was the pretty lady of the carriage .
I never could tell you how pretty she was .
She was tall , with cheeks like white roses blushing : she had dark hair , and very large dark-grey eyes , and her face was the kindest in the world !
The prince first thought how nice and good she looked , even before he thought how pretty she looked .
She stood up for Prince Prigio when her partner would speak ill of him .
She had never seen the prince , for she was but newly come to Pantouflia ; but she declared that it was his misfortune , not his fault , to be so clever .
`` And , then , think how hard they made him work at school !
Besides , '' said this kind young lady , `` I hear he is extremely handsome , and very brave ; and he has a good heart , for he was kind , I have heard , to a poor boy , and did all his examination papers for him , so that the boy passed first in everything .
And now he is Minister for Education , though he ca n't do a line of Greek prose ! ''
The prince blushed at this , for he knew his conduct had not been honourable .
But he at once fell over head and ears in love with the young lady , a thing he had never done in his life before , because -- he said -- `` women were so stupid ! ''
You see he was so clever !
Now , at this very moment -- when the prince , all of a sudden , was as deep in love as if he had been the stupidest officer in the room -- an extraordinary thing happened !
Something seemed to give a whirr !
in his brain , and in one instant he knew all about it !
He believed in fairies and fairy gifts , and understood that his cap was the cap of darkness , and his shoes the seven-league boots , and his purse the purse of Fortunatus !
He had read about those things in historical books : but now he believed in them .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Seven -RSB- CHAPTER VII .
-- The Prince Falls in Love HE understood all this , and burst out laughing , which nearly frightened an old lady near him out of her wits .
Ah !
how he wished he was only in evening dress , that he might dance with the charming young lady .
But there he was , dressed just as if he were going out to hunt , if anyone could have seen him .
So , even if he took off his cap of darkness , and became visible , he was no figure for a ball .
Once he would not have cared , but now he cared very much indeed .
But the prince was not clever for nothing .
He thought for a moment , then went out of the room , and , in three steps of the seven-league boots , was at his empty , dark , cold palace again .
He struck a light with a flint and steel , lit a torch , and ran upstairs to the garret .
The flaring light of the torch fell on the pile of `` rubbish , '' as the queen would have called it , which he turned over with eager hands .
Was there -- yes , there was another cap !
There it lay , a handsome green one with a red feather .
The prince pulled off the cap of darkness , put on the other , and said : '' I wish I were dressed in my best suit of white and gold , with the royal Pantouflia diamonds !
'' In one moment there he was in white and gold , the greatest and most magnificent dandy in the whole world , and the handsomest man !
`` How about my boots , I wonder , '' said the prince ; for his seven-league boots were stout riding-boots , not good to dance in , whereas now he was in elegant shoes of silk and gold .
He threw down the wishing cap , put on the other -- the cap of darkness -- and made three strides in the direction of Gluckstein .
But he was only three steps nearer it than he had been , and the seven-league boots were standing beside him on the floor !
`` No , '' said the prince ; `` no man can be in two different pairs of boots at one and the same time !
That 's mathematics ! ''
He then hunted about in the lumber-room again till he found a small , shabby , old Persian carpet , the size of a hearthrug .
He went to his own room , took a portmanteau in his hand , sat down on the carpet , and said : `` I wish I were in Gluckstein . ''
In a moment there he found himself ; for this was that famous carpet which Prince Hussein bought long ago , in the market at Bisnagar , and which the fairies had brought , with the other presents , to the christening of Prince Prigio .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 40 -RSB- When he arrived at the house where the ball was going on , he put the magical carpet in the portmanteau , and left it in the cloakroom , receiving a numbered ticket in exchange .
Then he marched in all his glory -LRB- and , of course , without the cap of darkness -RRB- into the room where they were dancing .
Everybody made place for him , bowing down to the ground , and the loyal band struck up The Prince 's March : Heaven bless our Prince Prigio !
What is there he does n't know ?
Greek , Swiss , German -LRB- High and Low -RRB- , And the names of the mountains in Mexico , Heaven bless the prince !
He used to be very fond of this march , and the words -- some people even said he had made them himself .
But now , somehow , he did n't much like it .
He went straight to the Duke of Stumpfelbahn , the Hereditary Master of the Ceremonies , and asked to be introduced to the beautiful young lady .
She was the daughter of the new English Ambassador , and her name was Lady Rosalind .
But she nearly fainted when she heard who it was that wished to dance with her , for she was not at all particularly clever ; and the prince had such a bad character for snubbing girls , and asking them difficult questions .
However , it was impossible to refuse , and so she danced with the prince , and he danced very well .
Then they sat out in the conservatory , among the flowers , where nobody came near them ; and then they danced again , and then the Prince took her down to supper .
And all the time he never once said , `` Have you read this ?
'' or `` Have you read that ?
'' or , `` What !
you never heard of Alexander the Great ? ''
or Julius Caesar , or Michael Angelo , or whoever it might be -- horrid , difficult questions he used to ask .
That was the way he used to go on : but now he only talked to the young lady about herself ; and she quite left off being shy or frightened , and asked him all about his own country , and about the Firedrake shooting , and said how fond she was of hunting herself .
And the prince said : `` Oh , if you wish it , you shall have the horns and tail of a Firedrake to hang up in your hall , to-morrow evening ! ''
Then she asked if it was not very dangerous work , Firedrake hunting ; and he said it was nothing , when you knew the trick of it : and he asked her if she would but give him a rose out of her bouquet ; and , in short , he made himself so agreeable and unaffected , that she thought him very nice indeed .
For , even a clever person can be nice when he likes -- above all , when he is not thinking about himself .
And now the prince was thinking of nothing in the world but the daughter of the English Ambassador , and how to please her-He got introduced to her father too , and quite won his heart ; and , at last , he was invited to dine next day at the Embassy .
In Pantouflia , it is the custom that a ball must not end while one of the royal family goes on dancing .
This ball lasted till the light came in , and the birds were singing out of doors , and all the mothers present were sound asleep .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 42 -RSB- Then nothing would satisfy the prince , but that they all should go home singing through the streets ; in fact , there never had been so merry a dance in all Pantouflia .
The prince had made a point of dancing with almost every girl there : and he had suddenly become the most beloved of the royal family .
But everything must end at last ; and the prince , putting on the cap of darkness and sitting on the famous carpet , flew back to his lonely castle .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eight -RSB- CHAPTER VIII .
-- The Prince is Puzzled PRINCE PRIGIO did not go to bed .
It was bright daylight , and he had promised to bring the horns and tail of a Firedrake as a present to a pretty lady .
He had said it was easy to do this ; but now , as he sat and thought over it , he did not feel so victorious .
`` First , '' he said , `` where is the Firedrake ? ''
He reflected for a little , and then ran upstairs to the garret .
`` It should be here ! ''
he cried , tossing the fairies ' gifts about ; `` and , by George , here it is ! ''
Indeed , he had found the spyglass of carved ivory which Prince Ali , in the Arabian Nights , bought in the bazaar in Schiraz .
Now , this glass was made so that , by looking through it , you could see anybody or anything you wished , however far away .
Prigio 's first idea was to look at his lady .
`` But she does not expect to be looked at , '' he thought ; `` and I wo n't !
'' On the other hand , he determined to look at the Firedrake ; for , of course , he had no delicacy about spying on him , the brute .
The prince clapped the glass to his eye , stared out of window , and there , sure enough , he saw the Firedrake .
He was floating about in a sea of molten lava , on the top of a volcano .
There he was , swimming and diving for pleasure , tossing up the flaming waves , and blowing fountains of fire out of his nostrils , like a whale spouting !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 44 -RSB- The prince did not like the looks of him .
`` With all my cap of darkness , and my shoes of swiftness , and my sword of sharpness , I never could get near that beast , '' he said ; `` and if I did stalk him , I could not hurt him .
Poor little Alphonso !
poor Enrico !
what plucky fellows they were !
I fancied that there was no such thing as a Firedrake : he 's not in the Natural History books ; and I thought the boys were only making fun , and would be back soon , safe and sound .
How horrid being too clever makes one !
And now , what am I to do ? ''
What was he to do , indeed ?
And what would you have done ?
Bring the horns and tail he must , or perish in the adventure .
Otherwise , how could he meet his lady ?
-- why , she would think him a mere braggart .
The prince sat down , and thought and thought ; and the day went on , and it was now high noon .
At last he jumped up and rushed into the library , a room where nobody ever went except himself and the queen .
There he turned the books upside down , in his haste , till he found an old one , by a French gentleman , Monsieur Cyrano de Bergerac .
It was an account of a voyage to the moon , in which there is a great deal of information about matters not generally known ; for few travellers have been to the moon .
In that book , Prince Prigio fancied he would find something he half remembered , and that would be of use to him .
And he did !
So you see that cleverness , and minding your book , have some advantages , after all .
For here the prince learned that there is a very rare beast called a Remora , which is at least as cold as the Firedrake is hot !
`` Now , '' thought he , '' if I can only make these two fight , why the Remora may kill the Firedrake , or take the heat out of him , at least , so that I may have a chance . ''
Then he seized the ivory glass , clapped it to his eye , and looked for the Remora .
Just the tip of his nose , as white as snow and as smooth as ice , was sticking out of a chink in a frozen mountain , not far from the burning mountain of the Firedrake .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 46 -RSB- `` Hooray ! ''
said the prince softly to himself ; and he jumped like mad into the winged shoes of swiftness , stuck on the cap of darkness , girdled himself with the sword of sharpness , and put a good slice of bread , with some cold tongue , in a wallet , which he slung on his back .
Never you fight , if you can help it , except with plenty of food to keep you going and in good heart .
Then off he flew , and soon he reached the volcano of the Firedrake .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Nine -RSB- CHAPTER IX .
-- The Prince and the Firedrake IT was dreadfully hot , even high up in the air , where the prince hung invisible .
Great burning stones were tossed up by the volcano , and nearly hit him several times .
Moreover , the steam and smoke , and the flames which the Firedrake spouted like foam from his nostrils , would have daunted even the bravest man .
The sides of the hill , too , were covered with the blackened ashes of his victims , whom he had roasted when they came out to kill him .
The garden-engine of poor little Alphonso was lying in the valley , all broken and useless .
But the Firedrake , as happy as a wild duck on a lonely lock , was rolling and diving in the liquid flame , all red-hot and full of frolic .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted the prince .
The Firedrake rose to the surface , his horns as red as a red crescent-moon , only bigger , and lashing the fire with his hoofs and his blazing tail .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he said in a hoarse , angry voice .
`` Just let me get at you ! ''
`` It 's me , '' answered the prince .
It was the first time he had forgotten his grammar , but he was terribly excited .
`` What do you want ? ''
grunted the beast .
`` I wish I could see you '' ; and , horrible to relate , he rose on a pair of wide , flaming wings , and came right at the prince , guided by the sound of his voice .
Now , the prince had never heard that Fire-drakes could fly ; indeed , he had never believed in them at all , till the night before .
For a moment he was numb with terror ; then he flew down like a stone to the very bottom of the hill and shouted : `` Hi ! ''
`` Well , '' grunted the Firedrake , `` what 's the matter ?
Why ca n't you give a civil answer to a civil question ? ''
`` Will you go back to your hole and swear , on your honour as a Firedrake , to listen quietly ? ''
`` On my sacred word of honour , '' said the beast , casually scorching an eagle that flew by into ashes .
The cinders fell , jingling and crackling , round the prince in a little shower .
Then the Firedrake dived back , with an awful splash of flame , and the mountain roared round him .
The prince now flew high above him , and cried : `` A message from the Remora .
He says you are afraid to fight him . ''
`` Do n't know him , '' grunted the Firedrake .
`` He sends you his glove , '' said Prince Prigio , `` as a challenge to mortal combat , till death do you part . ''
Then he dropped his own glove into the fiery lake .
`` Does he ? ''
yelled the Firedrake .
`` Just let me get at him ! ''
and he scrambled out , all red-hot as he was .
`` I 'll go and tell him you 're coming , '' said the prince ; and with two strides he was over the frozen mountain of the Remora .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Ten -RSB- CHAPTER X. -- The Prince and the Remora If he had been too warm before , the prince was too cold now .
The hill of the Remora was one solid mass of frozen steel , and the cold rushed out of it like the breath of some icy beast , which indeed it was .
All around were things like marble statues of men in armour : they were the dead bodies of the knights , horses and all , who had gone out of old to fight the Remora , and who had been frosted up by him .
The prince felt his blood stand still , and he grew faint ; but he took heart , for there was no time to waste .
Yet he could nowhere see the Remora .
`` Hi ! ''
shouted the prince .
Then , from a narrow chink at the bottom of the smooth , black hill , -- a chink no deeper than that under a door , but a mile wide , -- stole out a hideous head !
It was as fiat as the head of a skate-fish , it was deathly pale , and two chill-blue eyes , dead-coloured like stones , looked out of it .
Then there came a whisper , like the breath of the bitter east wind on a wintry day : `` Where are you , and how can I come to you ? ''
`` Here I am ! ''
said the prince from the top of the hill .
Then the flat , white head set itself against the edge of the chink from which it had peeped , and slowly , like the movement of a sheet of ice , it slipped upwards and curled upwards , and up , and up !
There seemed no end to it at all ; and it moved horribly , without feet , holding on by its own frost to the slippery side of the frozen hill .
Now all the lower part of the black hill was covered with the horrid white thing coiled about it in smooth , flat shiny coils ; and still the head was higher than the rest ; and still the icy cold came nearer and nearer , like Death .
The prince almost fainted : everything seemed to swim ; and in one moment more he would have fallen stiff on the mountain-top , and the white head would have crawled over him , and the cold coils would have slipped over him and turned him to stone .
And still the thing slipped up , from the chink under the mountain .
But the prince made a great effort ; he moved , and in two steps he was far away , down in the valley where it was not so very cold .
`` Hi ! ''
he shouted , as soon as his tongue could move within his chattering teeth .
There came a clear , hissing answer , like frozen words dropping round him : `` Wait till I come down .
What do you want ? ''
Then the white folds began to slide , like melting ice , from the black hill .
Prince Prigio felt the air getting warmer behind him , and colder in front of him .
He looked round , and there were the trees beginning to blacken in the heat , and the grass looking like a sea of fire along the plains ; for the Firedrake was coming !
The prince just took time to shout , `` The Firedrake is going to pay you a visit ! ''
and then he soared to the top of a neighbouring hill , and looked on at what followed .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eleven -RSB- CHAPTER XI .
-- The Battle IT was an awful sight to behold !
When the Remora heard the name of the Firedrake , his hated enemy , he slipped with wonderful speed from the cleft of the mountain into the valley .
On and on and on he poured over rock and tree , as if a frozen river could slide downhill ; on and on , till there were miles of him stretching along the valley -- miles of the smooth-ribbed , icy creature , crawling and slipping forwards .
The green trees dropped their leaves as he advanced ; the birds fell down dead from the sky , slain by his frosty breath !
But , fast as the Remora stole forward , the Firedrake came quicker yet , flying and clashing his fiery wings .
At last they were within striking distance ; and the Firedrake , stooping from the air , dashed with his burning horns and flaming feet slap into the body of the Remora .
Then there rose a steam so dreadful , such a white yet fiery vapour of heat , that no one who had not the prince 's magic glass could have seen what happened .
With horrible grunts and roars the Firedrake tried to burn his way right through the flat body of the Remora , and to chase him to his cleft in the rock .
But the Remora , hissing terribly , and visibly melting away in places , yet held his ground ; and the prince could see his cold white folds climbing slowly up the hoofs of the Firedrake -- up and up , till they reached his knees , and the great burning beast roared like a hundred bulls with the pain .
Then up the Firedrake leaped , and hovering on his fiery wings , he lighted in the midst of the Remora 's back , and dashed into it with his horns .
But the flat , cruel head writhed backwards , and , slowly bending over on itself , the wounded Remora slid greedily to fasten again on the limbs of the Firedrake .
Meanwhile , the prince , safe on his hill , was lunching on the loaf and the cold tongue he had brought with him .
`` Go it , Remora !
Go it , Firedrake !
you 're gaining .
Give it him , Remora ! ''
he shouted in the wildest excitement .
Nobody had ever seen such a battle ; he had it all to himself , and he never enjoyed anything more .
He hated the Remora so much , that he almost wished the Firedrake could beat it ; for the Firedrake was the more natural beast of the pair .
Still , he was alarmed when he saw that the vast flat body of the Remora was now slowly coiling backwards , backwards , into the cleft below the hill ; while a thick wet mist showed how cruelly it had suffered .
But the Firedrake , too , was in an unhappy way ; for his legs were now cold and black , his horns were black also , though his body , especially near the heart , glowed still like red-hot iron .
`` Go it , Remora ! ''
cried the prince : `` his legs are giving way ; he 's groggy on his pins !
One more effort , and he wo n't be able to move ! ''
Encouraged by this advice , the white , slippery Remora streamed out of his cavern again , more and more of him uncoiling , as if the mountain were quite full of him .
He had lost strength , no doubt : for the steam and mist went up from him in clouds , and the hissing of his angry voice grew fainter ; but so did the roars of the Firedrake .
Presently they sounded more like groans ; and at last the Remora slipped up his legs above the knees , and fastened on his very heart of fire .
Then the Firedrake stood groaning like a black bull , knee-deep in snow ; and still the Remora climbed and climbed .
`` Go it now , Firedrake ! ''
shouted the prince ; for he knew that if the Remora won , it would be too cold for him to draw near the place , and cut off the Firedrake 's head and tail .
`` Go it , Drake !
he 's slackening ! ''
cried the prince again ; and the brave Firedrake made one last furious effort , and rising on his wings , dropped just on the spine of his enemy .
The wounded Remora curled back his head again on himself , and again crawled , steaming terribly , towards his enemy .
But the struggle was too much for the gallant Remora .
The flat , cruel head moved slower ; the steam from his thousand wounds grew fiercer ; and he gently breathed his last just as the Firedrake , too , fell over and lay exhausted .
With one final roar , like the breath of a thousand furnaces , the Firedrake expired .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 58 -RSB- The prince , watching from the hill-top , could scarcely believe that these two awful scourges of Nature , which had so long devastated his country , were actually dead .
But when he had looked on for half-an-hour , and only a river ran where the Remora had been , while the body of the Firedrake lay stark and cold , he hurried to the spot .
Drawing the sword of sharpness , he hacked off , at two blows , the iron head and the tail of the Firedrake .
They were a weary weight to carry ; but in a few strides of the shoes of swiftness he was at his castle , where he threw down his burden , and nearly fainted with excitement and fatigue .
But the castle clock struck half-past seven ; dinner was at eight , and the poor prince crawled on hands and knees to the garret .
Here he put on the wishing-cap ; wished for a pint of champagne , a hot bath , and his best black velvet and diamond suit .
In a moment these were provided ; he bathed , dressed , drank a glass of wine , packed up the head and tail of the Firedrake ; sat down on the flying carpet , and knocked at the door of the English Ambassador as the clocks were striking eight ' in Gluckstein .
Punctuality is the politeness of princes ; and a prince is polite when he is in love !
The prince was received at the door by a stout porter and led into the hall , where several butlers met him , and he laid the mortal remains of the Firedrake under the cover of the flying carpet .
Then he was led upstairs , and he made his bow to the pretty lady , who , of course , made him a magnificent courtesy .
She seemed prettier and kinder than ever .
The prince was so happy , that he never noticed how something went wrong about the dinner .
The ambassador looked about , and seemed to miss someone , and spoke in a low voice to one of the servants , who answered also in a low voice , and what he said seemed to displease the ambassador .
But the prince was so busy in talking to his lady , and in eating his dinner too , that he never observed anything unusual .
He had never been at such a pleasant dinner !
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Twelve -RSB- CHAPTER XII .
-- A Terrible Misfortune WHEN the ladies left , and the prince and the other gentlemen were alone , the ambassador appeared more gloomy than ever .
At last he took the prince into a corner , on pretence of showing him a rare statue .
`` Does your royal highness not know , '' he asked , `` that you are in considerable danger ? ''
`` Still ? ''
said the prince , thinking of the Firedrake .
The ambassador did not know what he meant , for he had never heard of the fight , but he answered gravely : `` Never more than now . ''
Then he showed the prince two proclamations , which had been posted all about the town .
Here is the first : TO ALL LOYAL SUBJECTS .
Whereas , Our eldest son , Prince Prigio , hath of late been guilty of several high crimes and misdemeanours .
First : By abandoning the post of danger against the Firedrake , whereby our beloved sons , Prince Alphonso and Prince Enrico , have perished , and been overdone by that monster .
Secondly : By attending an unseemly revel in the town of Gluckstein , where he brawled in the streets .
Thirdly : By trying to seduce away the hearts of our loyal subjects in that city , and to blow up a party against our crown and our peace .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 61 -RSB- This is to give warning , That whoever consorts with , comforts , aids , or abets the said Prince Prigio , is thereby a partner in his treason ; and That a reward of Five Thousand Purses will be given to whomsoever brings the said prince , alive , to our Castle of Falkenstein .
Grognio R. And here is the second proclamation : Reward .
The firedrake .
Whereas , Our dominions have lately been devastated by a Firedrake -LRB- the Salamander Furiosus of Buffon -RRB- ; This is to advise all , That whosoever brings the horns and tail of the said Firedrake to our Castle of Falkenstein , shall receive Five Thousand Purses , the position of Crown Prince , with the usual perquisites , and the hand of the king 's niece , the Lady Molinda .
Grognio R. `` H 'm , '' said the prince ; `` I did not think his majesty wrote so well ; '' and he would have liked to say , `` Do n't you think we might join the ladies ? ''
`` But , sir , '' said the ambassador , `` the streets are lined with soldiers ; and I know not how you have escaped them .
Here , under my roof , you are safe for the moment ; but a prolonged stay -- excuse my inhospitality -- could not but strain the harmonious relations which prevail between the Government of Pantouflia and that which I have the honour to represent . ''
`` We do n't want to fight ; and no more , I think , do you , '' said the prince , smiling .
`` Then how does your royal highness mean to treat the proclamations ? ''
`` Why , by winning these ten thousand purses .
I can tell you # 1,000,000 is worth having , '' said the prince .
`` I 'll deliver up the said prince , alive , at Falkenstein this very night ; also the horns and tail of the said Firedrake .
But I do n't want to marry my Cousin Molly . ''
`` May I remind your royal highness that Falkenstein is three hundred miles away ?
Moreover , my head butler , Benson , disappeared from the house before dinner , and I fear he went to warn Captain Kopzoffski that you are here !
'' `` That is nothing , '' said the prince ; `` but , my dear Lord Kelso , may I not have the pleasure of presenting Lady Rosalind with a little gift , a Philippine which I lost to her last night , merely the head and tail of a Firedrake which I stalked this morning ? ''
The ambassador was so astonished that he ran straight upstairs , forgetting his manners , and crying : `` Linda !
Linda !
come down at once ; here 's a surprise for you ! ''
Lady Rosalind came sweeping down , with a smile on her kind face .
She guessed what it was , though the prince had said nothing about it at dinner .
`` Lead the way , your royal highness ! ''
cried the ambassador ; and the prince offering Lady Rosalind his arm , went out into the hall , where he saw neither his carpet nor the horns and tail of the Firedrake !
He turned quite pale , and said : `` Will you kindly ask the servants where the little Persian prayer-rug and the parcel which I brought with me have been placed ? ''
Lord Kelso rang the bell , and in came all the servants , with William , the under-butler , at their head .
`` William , '' said his lordship , `` where have you put his royal highness 's parcel and his carpet ? ''
`` Please , your lordship , '' said William , `` we think Benson have took them away with him . ''
`` And where is Benson ? ''
`` We do n't know , your lordship .
We think he have been come for ! ''
`` Come for -- by whom ? ''
William stammered , and seemed at a loss for a reply .
`` Quick !
answer !
what do you know about it ? ''
William said at last , rather as if he were making a speech : `` Your royaliness , and my lords and ladies , it was like this .
His royaliness comed in with a rug over his arm , and summat under it .
And he lays it down on that there seat , and Thomas shows him into the droring-room .
Then Benson says : ` Dinner 'll be ready in five minutes ; how tired I do feel !
` Then he takes the libbuty of sitting hisself down on his royaliness 's rug , and he says , asking your pardon , ' I 've had about enough of service here .
I 'm about tired , and I thinks of bettering myself .
I wish I was at the king 's court , and butler . '
-LSB- Illustration : Page 65 -RSB- But before the words was out of his mouth , off he flies like a shot through the open door , and his royaliness 's parcel with him .
I run to the door , and there he was , flying right hover the town , in a northerly direction .
And that 's all I know ; for I would not tell a lie , not if it was hever so .
And me , and Thomas -- as did n't see it , -- and cook , we thinks as how Benson was come for .
And cook says as she do n't wonder at it , neither ; for a grumblinger , more ill-conditioneder -- '' `` Thank you , William , '' said Lord Kelso ; `` that will do ; you can go , for the present . ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Thirteen -RSB- CHAPTER XIII .
-- Surprises THE prince said nothing , the ambassador said nothing , Lady Rosalind said never a word till they were in the drawing-room .
It was a lovely warm evening , and the French windows were wide open on the balcony , which looked over the town and away north to the hills .
Below them flowed the clear , green water of the Gluckthal And still nobody said a word .
At last the prince spoke : `` This is a very strange story , Lord Kelso ! ''
`` Very , sir ! ''
said the ambassador .
`` But true , '' added the prince ; `` at least , there is no reason in the nature of things why it should n't be true . ''
`` I can hardly believe , sir , that the conduct of Benson , whom I always found a most respectable man , deserved -- '' `` That he should be ` come for , ' '' said the prince .
`` Oh , no ; it was a mere accident , and might have happened to any of us who chanced to sit down on my carpet . ''
And then the prince told them , shortly , all about it : how the carpet was one of a number of fairy properties , which had been given him at his christening ; and how so long a time had gone by before he discovered them ; and how , probably , the carpet had carried the butler where he had said he wanted to go -- namely , to the king 's Court at Falkenstein .
`` It would not matter so much , '' added the prince , `` only I had relied on making my peace with his majesty , my father , by aid of those horns and that tail .
He was set on getting them ; and if the Lady Rosalind had not expressed a wish for them , they would to-day have been in his possession . ''
`` Oh , sir , you honour us too highly , '' murmured Lady Rosalind ; and the prince blushed and said : `` Not at all !
Impossible ! ''
Then , of course , the ambassador became quite certain that his daughter was admired by the crown prince , who was on bad terms with the king of the country ; and a more uncomfortable position for an ambassador -- however , they are used to them .
`` What on earth am I to do with the young man ? ''
he thought .
`` He ca n't stay here for ever ; and without his carpet he ca n't get away , for the soldiers have orders to seize him as soon as he appears in the street .
And in the meantime Benson will be pretending that he killed the Firedrake -- for he must have got to Falkenstein by now , -- and they will be for marrying him to the king 's niece , and making my butler crown prince to the kingdom of Pantouflia !
It is dreadful ! ''
Now all this time the prince was on the balcony , telling Lady Rosalind all about how he got the Firedrake done for , in the most modest way ; for , as he said : `` I did n't kill him : and it is really the Remora , poor fellow , who should marry Molly ; but he 's dead . ''
At this very moment there was a whizz in the air ; something shot past them , and , through the open window , the king , the queen , Benson , and the mortal remains of the Firedrake were shot into the ambassador 's drawing room !
-LSB- Illustration : Page 69 -RSB- -LSB- Illustration : Chapter Fourteen -RSB- CHAPTER XIV .
-- The King Explains .
THE first who recovered his voice and presence of mind was Benson .
`` Did your lordship ring for coffee ? ''
he asked , quietly ; and when he was told `` Yes , '' he bowed and withdrew , with majestic composure .
When he had gone , the prince threw himself at the king 's feet , crying : `` Pardon , pardon , my liege ! ''
`` Do n't speak to me , sir ! ''
answered the king , very angrily ; and the poor prince threw himself at the feet of the queen .
But she took no notice of him whatever , no more than if he had been a fairy ; and the prince heard her murmur , as she pinched her royal arms : `` I shall waken presently ; this is nothing out of the way for a dream .
Dr. Rumpfino ascribes it to imperfect nutrition . ''
All this time , the Lady Rosalind , as pale as a marble statue , was leaning against the side of the open window .
The prince thought he could do nothing wiser than go and comfort her , so he induced her to sit down on a chair in the balcony , -- for he felt that he was not wanted in the drawing-room ; -- and soon they were talking happily about the stars , which had begun to appear in the summer night .
Meanwhile , the ambassador had induced the king to take a seat ; but there was no use in talking to the queen .
`` It would be a miracle , '' she said to herself , `` and miracles do not happen ; therefore this has not happened .
Presently , I shall wake up in my own bed at Falkenstein . ''
Now , Benson , William , and Thomas brought in the coffee , but the queen took no notice .
When they went away , the rest of the company slipped off quietly , and the king was left alone with the ambassador ; for the queen could hardly be said to count .
`` You want to know all about it , I suppose ? ''
said his majesty in a sulky voice .
`` Well , you have a right to it , and I shall tell you .
We were just sitting down to dinner at Falkenstein , rather late , -- hours get later every year , I think -- when I heard a row in the premises , and the captain of the guard , Colonel McDougal , came and told us that a man had arrived with the horns and tail of the Firedrake , and was claiming the reward .
Her majesty and I rose and went into the outer court , where we found , sitting on that carpet with a glass of beer in his hand , a respectable-looking upper servant , whom I recognised as your butler .
He informed us that he had just killed the beast , and showed us the horns and tail , sure enough ; there they are !
The tail is like the iron handle of a pump , but the horns are genuine .
A pair were thrown up by a volcano , in my great-grandfather 's time Giglio I. * Excellent coffee this , of yours ! ''
* The History of this Prince may be read in a treatise called The Rose and the Ring , by M. A. Titmarsh .
London , 1855 .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 72 -RSB- The ambassador bowed .
`` Well , we asked him where he killed the Firedrake , and he said in a garden near Gluckstein .
Then he began to speak about the reward , and the ` perkisits , ' as he called them , which it seems he had read about in my proclamation .
Rather a neat thing ; drew it up myself , '' added his majesty .
`` Very much to the point , '' said the ambassador , wondering what the king was coming to .
`` Glad you like it , '' said the king , much pleased .
`` Well , where was I ?
Oh , yes ; your man said he had killed the creature in a garden , quite near Gluckstein .
I did n't much like the whole affair : he is an alien , you see ; and then there was my niece , Molinda -- poor girl , she was certain to give trouble .
Her heart is buried , if I may say so , with poor Alphonso .
But the queen is a very remarkable woman -- very remarkable -- '' `` Very ! ''
said the ambassador , with perfect truth . ''
` Caitiff ! '
she cries to your butler , '' his majesty went on ; '' ` perjured knave , thou liest in thy throat !
Gluckstein is a hundred leagues from here , and how say est thou that thou slewest the molester , and earnest hither in a few hours ' space ? '
This had not occurred to me , -- I am a plain king , but I at once saw the force of her majesty 's argument .
Yes , ' said I ; ` how did you manage it ? '
But he -- your man , I mean -- was not a bit put out .
` Why , your majesty , ' says he , ' I just sat down on that there bit of carpet , wished I was here , and here I ham .
And I 'd be glad , having had the trouble , -- and my time not being my own , -- to see the colour of them perkisits , according to the proclamation . '
On this her majesty grew more indignant , if possible .
` Nonsense ! '
she cried ; ' a story out of the ` Arabian Nights ' is not suited for a modern public , and fails to win sthetic credence . '
These were her very words . ''
`` Her majesty 's expressions are ever choice and appropriate , '' said the ambassador . ''
` Sit down there , on the carpet , knave , ' she went on ; ` ourself and consort ' -- meaning me -- ` will take our places by thy side , and I shall wish us in Gluckstein , at thy master 's !
When the experiment has failed , thy head shall from thy shoulders be shorn ! '
So your man merely said , ` Very well , mum , -- your majesty , I mean , ' and sat down .
The queen took her place at the edge of the carpet ; I sat between her and the butler , and she said , ' I wish I were in Gluckstein ! '
Then we rose , flew through the air at an astonishing pace , and here we are !
So I suppose the rest of the butler 's tale is true , which I regret ; but a king 's word is sacred , and he shall take the place of that sneak , Prigio .
But as we left home before dinner , and yours is over , may I request your lordship to believe that I should be delighted to take something cold ? ''
The ambassador at once ordered a sumptuous collation , to which the king did full justice ; and his majesty was shown to the royal chamber , as he complained of fatigue .
The queen accompanied him , remarking that she was sound asleep , but would waken presently .
Neither of them said `` Good-night '' to the prince .
Indeed , they did not see him again , for he was on the balcony with Lady Rosalind .
They found a great deal to say to each other , and at last the prince asked her to be his wife ; and she said that if the king and her father gave their permission -- why , then she would !
After this she went to bed ; and the prince , who had not slept at all the night before , felt very sleepy also .
But he knew that first he had something that must be done .
So he went into the drawing-room , took his carpet , and wished to be -- now where do you suppose ?
Beside the dead body of the Firedrake !
There he was in a moment ; and dreadful the body looked , lying stark and cold in the white moonshine .
Then the prince cut off its four hoofs , put them in his wallet , and with these he flew back in a second , and met the ambassador just as he came from ushering the king to bed .
Then the prince was shown his own room , where he locked up the hoofs , the carpet , the cap of darkness , and his other things in an iron box ; and so he went to bed and dreamed of his Lady Rosalind .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Fifteen -RSB- CHAPTER XV .
-- The King 's Cheque WHEN they all awakened next morning , their first ideas were confused .
It is often confusing to wake in a strange bed , much more so when you have flown through the air , like the king , the queen , and Benson the butler .
For her part , the queen was the most perplexed of all ; for she did undeniably wake , and yet she was not at home , where she had expected to be .
However , she was a determined woman , and stood to it that nothing unusual was occurring .
The butler made up his mind to claim the crown princeship and the hand of the Lady Molinda ; because , as he justly remarked to William , here was such a chance to better himself as might not soon come in his way again .
As for the king , he was only anxious to get back to Falkenstein , and have the whole business settled in a constitutional manner .
The ambassador was not sorry to get rid of the royal party ; and it was proposed that they should all sit down on the flying carpet , and wish themselves at home again .
But the queen would not hear of it : she said it was childish and impossible ; so the carriage was got ready for her , and she started without saying a word of good-bye to anyone .
The king , Benson , and the prince were not so particular , and they simply flew back to Falkenstein in the usual way , arriving there at 11.35 -- a week before her majesty .
The king at once held a Court ; the horns and tail of the monster were exhibited amidst general interest , and Benson and the prince were invited to state their claims .
Benson 's evidence was taken first .
He declined to say exactly where or how he killed the Firedrake .
There might be more of them left , he remarked , -- young ones , that would take a lot of killing , -- and he refused to part with his secret .
Only he claimed the reward , which was offered , if you remember , not to the man who killed the beast , but to him wha brought its horns and tail .
This was allowed by the lawyers present to be very sound law ; and Benson was cheered by the courtiers , who decidedly preferred him to Prigio , and who , besides , thought he was going to be crown prince .
As for Lady Molinda , she was torn by the most painful feelings ; for , much as she hated Prigio , she could not bear the idea of marrying Benson .
Yet one or the other choice seemed certain .
Unhappy lady !
Perhaps no girl was ever more strangely beset by misfortune !
Prince Prigio was now called on to speak .
He admitted that the reward was offered for bringing the horns and tail , not for killing the monster .
But were the king 's intentions to go for nothing ?
When a subject only meant well , of course he had to suffer ; but when a king said one thing , was he not to be supposed to have meant another ?
Any fellow with a waggon could bring the horns and tail ; the difficult thing was to kill the monster .
If Benson 's claim was allowed , the royal prerogative of saying one thing and meaning something else was in danger .
On hearing this argument , the king so far forgot himself as to cry , `` Bravo , well said ! ''
and to clap his hands , whereon all the courtiers shouted and threw up their hats .
The prince then said that whoever had killed the monster could , of course , tell where to find him , and could bring his hoofs .
He was ready to do this himself .
Was Mr. Benson equally ready ?
On this being interpreted to him -- for he did not speak Pantouflian -- Benson grew pale with horror , but fell back on the proclamation .
He had brought the horns and tail , and so he must have the perquisites , and the Lady Molinda !
The king 's mind was so much confused by this time , that he determined to leave it to the Lady Molinda herself .
`` Which of them will you have , my dear ? ''
he asked , in a kind voice .
But poor Molinda merely cried .
Then his majesty was almost driven to say that he would give the reward to whoever produced the hoofs by that day week .
But no sooner had he said this than the prince brought them out of his wallet , and displayed them in open Court .
This ended the case ; and Benson , after being entertained with sherry and sandwiches in the steward 's room , was sent back to his master , And I regret to say that his temper was not at all improved by his failure to better himself .
On the contrary , he was unusually cross and disagreeable for several days ; but we must , perhaps , make some allowance for his disappointment .
But if Benson was irritated , and suffered from the remarks of his fellow-servants , I do not think we can envy Prince Prigio .
Here he was , restored to his position indeed , but by no means to the royal favour .
For the king disliked him as much as ever , and was as angry as ever about the deaths of Enrico and Alphonso .
Nay , he was even more angry ; and , perhaps , not without reason .
He called up Prigio before the whole Court , and thereon the courtiers cheered like anything , but the king cried : `` Silence !
McDougal , drag the first man that shouts to the serpent-house in the zoological gardens , and lock him up with the rattlesnakes ! ''
After that the courtiers were very quiet .
`` Prince , '' said the king , as Prigio bowed before the throne , `` you are restored to your position , because I can not break my promise .
But your base and malevolent nature is even more conspicuously manifest in your selfish success than in your previous dastardly contempt of duty .
Why , confound you ! ''
cried the king , dropping the high style in which he had been speaking , and becoming the father , not the monarch , -- `` why , if you could kill the Firedrake , did you let your poor little brothers go and be b -- b -- b -- broiled ?
Eh !
what do you say , you sneak ?
` You did n't believe there were any Firedrakes ? '
That just comes of your eternal conceit and arrogance !
If you were clever enough to kill the creature -- and I admit that -- you were clever enough to know that what everybody said must be true .
` You have not generally found it so ? '
Well , you have this time , and let it be a lesson to you ; not that there is much comfort in that , for it is not likely you will ever have such another chance '' -- exactly the idea that had occurred to Benson .
Here the king wept , among the tears of the lord chief justice , the poet laureate -LRB- who had been awfully frightened when he heard of the rattlesnakes -RRB- , the maids of honour , the chaplain royal , and everyone but Colonel McDougal , a Scottish soldier of fortune , who maintained a military reserve .
When his majesty had recovered , he said to Prigio -LRB- who had not been crying , he was too much absorbed -RRB- : `` A king 's word is his bond .
Bring me a pen , somebody , and my cheque-book . ''
The royal cheque-book , bound in red morocco , was brought in by eight pages , with ink and a pen .
His majesty then filled up and signed the following satisfactory document -- -LRB- Ah !
my children , how I wish Mr. Arrowsmith would do as much for me ! -RRB-
: -LSB- Illustration : The King 's Cheque -RSB- `` There ! ''
said his majesty , crossing his cheque and throwing sand over it , for blotting-paper had not yet been invented ; `` there , take that , and be off with you ! ''
Prince Prigio was respectfully but rapidly obeying his royal command , for he thought he had better cash the royal cheque as soon as possible , when his majesty yelled : `` Hi !
here !
come back !
I forgot something ; you 've got to marry Molinda ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Sixteen -RSB- CHAPTER XVI .
-- A Melancholy Chapter THE prince had gone some way , when the king called after him .
How he wished he had the seven-league boots on , or that he had the cap of darkness in his pocket !
If he had been so lucky , he would now have got back to Gluckstein , and crossed the border with Lady Rosalind .
A million of money may not seem much , but a pair of young people who really love each other could live happily on less than the cheque he had in his pocket .
However , the king shouted very loud , as he always did when he meant to be obeyed , and the prince sauntered slowly back again .
`` Prigio ! ''
said his majesty , `` where were you off to ?
Do n't you remember that this is your wedding-day ?
My proclamation offered , not only the money -LRB- which you have -RRB- , but the hand of the Lady Molinda , which the Court chaplain will presently make your own .
I congratulate you , sir ; Molinda is a dear girl . ''
`` I have the highest affection and esteem for my cousin , sir , '' said the prince , `` but : -- '' `` I 'll never marry him ! ''
cried poor Molinda , kneeling at the throne , where her streaming eyes and hair made a pretty and touching picture .
`` Never !
I despise him ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 84 -RSB- `` I was about to say , sir , '' the prince went on , `` that I can not possibly have the pleasure of wedding my cousin . ''
`` The family gibbet , I presume , is in good working order ? ''
asked the king of the family executioner , a tall gaunt man in black and scarlet , who was only employed in the case of members of the blood royal .
`` Never better , sire , '' said the man , bowing with more courtliness than his profession indicated .
`` Very well , '' said the king ; `` Prince Prigio , you have your choice .
There is the gallows , here is Lady Molinda .
My duty is painful , but clear .
A king 's word can not be broken .
Molly , or the gibbet ! ''
The prince bowed respectfully to Lady Molinda : `` Madam , my cousin , '' said he , `` your clemency will excuse my answer , and you will not misinterpret the apparent discourtesy of my conduct .
I am compelled , most unwillingly , to slight your charms , and to select the Extreme Rigour of the Law .
Executioner , lead on !
Do your duty ; for me , Prigio est prt ; '' -- for this was his motto , and meant that he was ready .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 85 -RSB- Poor Lady Molinda could not but be hurt by the prince 's preference for death over marriage to her , little as she liked him .
`` Is life , then , so worthless ?
and is Molinda so terrible a person that you prefer those arms , '' and she pointed to the gibbet , `` to these ?
'' -- here she held out her own , which were very white , round and pretty ; for Molinda was a good-hearted girl , she could not bear to see Prigio put to death ; and then , perhaps , she reflected that there are worse positions than the queenship of Pantouflia .
For Alphonso was gone -- crying would not bring him back .
`` Ah , Madam ! ''
said the prince , `` you are forgiving -- '' `` For you are brave ! ''
said Molinda , feeling : quite a respect for him .
`` But neither your heart nor mine is ours to give .
Since mine was another 's , I understand too well the feeling of yours !
Do not let us buy life at the price of happiness and honour . ''
Then , turning to the king the prince said : `` Sir , is there no way but by death or marriage ?
You say you can not keep half only of your promise ; and that , if I accept the reward , I must also unite myself with my unwilling cousin .
Can not the whole proclamation be annulled , and will you consider the bargain void if I tear up this flimsy scroll ? ''
And here the prince fluttered the cheque for # 1,000,000 in the air .
For a moment the king was tempted ; but then he said to himself : `` Never mind , it 's only an extra penny on the income-tax . ''
Then , `` Keep your dross , '' he shouted , meaning the million ; `` but let me keep my promise .
To chapel at once , or -- '' and he pointed to the executioner .
`` The word of a king of Pantouflia is sacred . ''
`` And so is that of a crown prince , '' answered Prigio ; `` and mine is pledged to a lady . ''
`` She shall be a mourning bride , '' cried the king savagely , `` unless '' -- here he paused for a moment -- `` unless you bring me back Alphohso and Enrico , safe and well ! ''
The prince thought for the space of a flash of lightning .
`` I accept the alternative , '' he said , `` if your majesty will grant me my conditions . ''
`` Name them ! ''
said the king .
`` Let me be transported to Gluckstein , left there unguarded , and if , in three days , I do not return with my brothers safe and well , your majesty shall be spared a cruel duty .
Prigio of Pantouflia will perish by his own hand . ''
The king , whose mind did not work very quickly , took some minutes to think over it .
Then he saw that by granting the prince 's conditions , he would either recover his dear sons , or , at least , get rid of Prigio , without the unpleasantness of having him executed .
For , though some kings have put their eldest sons to death , and most have wished to do so , they have never been better loved by the people for their Roman virtue .
`` Honour bright ? ''
said the king at last .
`` Honour bright ! ''
answered the prince , and for the first time in many months , the royal father and son shook hands .
`` For you , madam , '' said Prigio in a stately way to Lady Molinda , `` in less than a week I trust we shall be taking our vows at the same altar , and that the close of the ceremony which finds us cousins will leave us brother and sister . ''
Poor Molinda merely stared ; for she could not imagine what he meant .
In a moment he was gone ; and having taken , by the king 's permission , the flying carpet , he was back at the ambassador 's house in Gluckstein .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Seventeen -RSB- CHAPTER XVII .
-- The Black Cat and the brethren WHO was glad to see the prince , if it was not Lady Rosalind ?
The white roses of her cheeks turned to red roses in a moment , and then back to white again , they were so alarmed at the change .
So the two went into the gardens together , and talked about a number of things ; but at last the prince told her that , before three days were over , all would be well , or all would be over with him .
For either he would have brought his brothers back , sound and well , to Falkenstein , or he would not survive his dishonour .
`` It is no more than right , '' he said ; `` for had I gone first , neither of them would have been sent to meet the monster after I had fallen .
And I should have fallen , dear Rosalind , if I had faced the Firedrake before I knew you .
'' Then when she asked him why , and what good she had done him , he told her all the story ; and how , before he fell in love with her , he did n't believe in fairies , or Firedrakes , or caps of darkness , or anything nice and impossible , but only in horrid useless facts , and chemistry , and geology , and arithmetic , and mathematics , and even political economy .
And the Firedrake would have made a mouthful of him , then .
So she was delighted when she heard this , almost as much delighted as she was afraid that he might fail in the most difficult adventure .
For it was one thing to egg on a Remora to kill a Firedrake , and quite another to find the princes if they were alive , and restore them if they were dead !
But the prince said he had his plan , and he stayed that night at the ambassador 's .
Next morning he rose very early , before anyone else was up , that he might not have to say `` Good-bye '' to Lady Rosalind .
Then he flew in a moment to the old lonely castle , where nobody went for fear of ghosts , ever since the Court retired to Falkenstein .
How still it was , how deserted ; not a sign of life , and yet the prince was looking everywhere for some living thing .
He hunted the castle through in vain , and then went out to the stable-yard ; but all the dogs , of course , had been taken away , and the farmers had offered homes to the poultry .
At last , stretched at full length in a sunny place , the prince found a very old , half-blind , miserable cat .
The poor creature was lean , and its fur had fallen off in patches ; it could no longer catch birds , nor even mice , and there was nobody to give it milk .
But cats do not look far into the future ; and this old black cat -- Frank was his name -- had got a breakfast somehow , and was happy in the sun .
The prince stood and looked at him pityingly , and he thought that even a sick old cat was , in some ways , happier than most men .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 91 -RSB- `` Well , '' said the prince at last , `` he could not live long anyway , and it must be done .
He will feel nothing . ''
Then he drew the sword of sharpness , and with one turn of his wrist cut the cat 's head clean off .
It did not at once change into a beautiful young lady , as perhaps you expect ; no , that was improbable , and , as the prince was in love already , would have been vastly inconvenient .
The dead cat lay there , like any common cat .
Then the prince built up a heap of straw , with wood on it ; and there he laid poor puss , and set fire to the pile .
Very soon there was nothing of old black Frank left but ashes !
Then the prince ran upstairs to the fairy cupboard , his heart beating loudly with excitement , The sun was shining through the arrow-shot window ; all the yellow motes were dancing in its rays .
The light fell on the strange heaps of fairy things -- talismans and spells .
The prince hunted about here and there , and at last he discovered six ancient water-vessels of black leather , each with a silver plate on it , and on the plate letters engraved .
This was what was written on the plates : AQVA .
DE .
FONTE .
LEONVM .
* * Water from the Fountain of Lions .
`` Thank heaven ! ''
said the prince .
`` I thought they were sure to have brought it ! ''
Then he took one of the old black-leather bottles , and ran downstairs again to the place where he had burned the body of the poor old sick cat .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 93 -RSB- He opened the bottle , and poured a few drops of the water on the ashes and the dying embers .
Up there sprang a tall , white flame of fire , waving like a tongue of light ; and forth from the heap jumped the most beautiful , strong , funny , black cat that ever was seen !
It was Frank as he had been in the vigour of his youth ; and he knew the prince at once , and rubbed himself against him and purred .
The prince lifted up Frank and kissed his nose for joy ; and a bright tear rolled down on Frank 's face , and made him rub his nose with his paw in the most comical manner .
Then the prince set him down , and he ran round and round after his tail ; and , lastly , cocked his tail up , and marched proudly after the prince into the castle .
`` Oh , Frank ! ''
said Prince Prigio , `` no cat since the time of Puss in Boots was ever so well taken care of as you shall be .
For if the fairy water from the Fountain of Lions can bring you back to life -- why , there is a chance for Alphonso and Enrico ! ''
Then Prigio bustled about , got ready some cold luncheon from the store-room , took all his fairy things that he was likely to need , sat down with them on the flying carpet , and wished himself at the mountain of the Firedrake .
`` I have the king now , '' he said ; `` for if I ca n't find the ashes of my brothers , by Jove !
I 'll !
-- '' Do you know what he meant to do , if he could not find his brothers ?
Let every child-guess .
Off he flew ; and there he was in a second , just beside poor Alphonso 's garden-engine .
Then Prigio , seeing a little heap of grey ashes beside the engine , watered them with the fairy water ; and up jumped Alphonso , as jolly as ever , his sword in his hand .
`` Hullo , Prigio ! ''
cried he ; `` are you come after the monster too ?
I 've been asleep , and I had a kind of dream that he beat me .
But the pair of us will tackle him .
How is Molinda ? ''
`` Prettier than ever , '' said Prigio ; `` but anxious about you .
However , the Firedrake 's dead and done for ; so never mind him .
But I left Enrico somewhere about .
Just you sit down and wait a minute , till I fetch him . ''
The prince said this , because he did not wish Alphonso to know that he and Enrico had not had quite the best of it in the affair with the monster .
`` All right , old fellow , '' says Alphonso ; `` but have you any luncheon with you ?
Never was so hungry in my life ! ''
Prince Prigio had thought of this , and he brought out some cold sausage -LRB- to which Alphonso was partial -RRB- and some bread , with which the younger prince expressed himself satisfied .
Then Prigio went up the hill some way , first warning Alphonso not to sit on his carpet for fear of accidents like that which happened to Benson .
In a hollow of the hill , sure enough there was the sword of Enrico , the diamonds of the hilt gleaming in the sun .
And there was a little heap of grey ashes .
The prince poured a few drops of the water from the Fountain of Lions on them , and up , of course , jumped Enrico , just as Alphonso had done .
`` Sleepy old chap you are , Enrico , '' said the prince ; `` but come on , Alphonso will have finished the grub unless we look smart . ''
So back they came , in time to get their share of what was going ; and they drank the Remora 's very good health , when Prigio told them about the fight .
But neither of them ever knew that they had been dead and done for ; because Prigio invented a story that the mountain was enchanted , and that , as long as the Firedrake lived , everyone who came there fell asleep .
He did tell them about the flying carpet , however , which of course did not much surprise them , because they had read all about it in the Arabian Nights and other historical works .
`` And now I 'll show you fun ! ''
said Prigio ; and he asked them both to take their seats on the carpet , and wished to be in the valley of the Remora .
There they were in a moment , among the old knights whom , if you remember , the Remora had frozen into stone .
There was quite a troop of them , in all sorts of armour -- Greek and Roman , and Knight Templars like Front ' de Bouf and Brian du Bois Gilbert -- all the brave warriors that had tried to fight the Remora since the world began .
Then Prigio gave each of his brothers some of the water in their caps , and told them to go round pouring a drop or two on each frozen knight .
And as they did it , lo and behold !
each knight came alive , with his horse , and lifted his sword and shoute : `` Long live Prince Prigio ! ''
in Greek , Latin , Egyptian , French , German , and Spanish , -- all of which the prince perfectly understood , and spoke like a native .
So he marshalled them in order , and sent them off to ride to Falkenstein and cry : `` Prince Prigio is coming ! ''
-LSB- Illustration : Page 97 -RSB- Off they went , the horses ' hoofs clattering , banners flying , sunshine glittering on the spear-points .
Off they rode to Falkenstein ; and when the king saw them come galloping in , I can tell you he had no more notion of hanging Prigio .
-LSB- Illustration : Chapter Eighteen -RSB- CHAPTER XVIII .
-- The Very Last THE princes returned to Gluckstein on the carpet , and went to the best inn , where they dined together and slept .
Next morning they , and the ambassador , who had been told all the story , and Lady Rosalind , floated comfortably on the carpet , back to Falkenstein , where the king wept like anything on the shoulders of Alphonso and Enrico .
They could not make out why he cried so , nor why Lady Molinda and Lady Kathleena cried ; but soon they were all laughing and happy again .
But then -- would you believe he could be so mean ?
-- he refused to keep his royal promise , and restore Prigio to his crown-princeship !
Kings are like that .
But Prigio , very quietly asking for the head of the Firedrake , said he 'd pour the magic water on that , and bring the Firedrake back to life again , unless his majesty behaved rightly .
This threat properly frightened King Grognio , and he apologised .
Then the king shook hands with Prigio in public , and thanked him , and said he was proud of him .
As to Lady Rosalind , the old gentleman quite fell in love with her , and he sent at once to the Chaplain Royal to get into his surplice , and marry all the young people off at once , without waiting for wedding-cakes , and milliners , and all the rest of it .
-LSB- Illustration : Page 100 -RSB- Now , just as they were forming a procession to march into church , who should appear but the queen !
Her majesty had been travelling by post all the time , and , luckily , had heard of none of the doings since Prigio , Benson , and the king left Gluckstein .
I say luckily because if she had heard of them , she would not have believed a word of them .
But when she saw Alphonso and Enrico , she was much pleased , and said : `` Naughty boys !
Where have you been hiding ?
The king had some absurd story about your having been killed by a fabulous monster .
Bah !
do n't tell me .
I always said you would come back after a little trip -- did n't I , Prigio ? ''
`` Certainly , madam , '' said Prigio ; `` and I said so , too .
Did n't I say so ? ''
And all the courtiers cried : `` Yes , you did ; '' but some added , to themselves , `` He always says , ` Did n't I say so ? ' ''
Then the queen was introduced to Lady Rosalind , and she said it was `` rather a short engagement , but she supposed young people understood their own affairs best . ''
And they do !
So the three pairs were married , with the utmost rejoicings ; and her majesty never , her whole life long , could be got to believe that anything unusual had occurred .
The honeymoon of Prince Prigio and the Crown Princess Rosalind was passed at the castle , where the prince had been deserted by the Court .
But now it was delightfully fitted up ; and Master Frank marched about the house with his tail in the air , as if the place belonged to him .
Now , on the second day of their honeymoon , the prince and princess were sitting in the garden together , and the prince said , `` Are you quite happy , my dear ? ''
and Rosalind said , `` Yes ; quite . ''
But the prince did not like the tone of her voice , and he said : `` No , there 's something ; do tell me what it is . ''
`` Well , '' said Rosalind , putting her head on his shoulder , and speaking very low , `` I want everybody to love you as much as I do .
No , not quite so very much , -- but I want them to like you .
Now they ca n't , because they are afraid of you ; for you are so awfully clever .
Now , could n't you take the wishing cap , and wish to be no cleverer than other people ?
Then everybody would like you ! ''
The prince thought a minute , then he said : `` Your will is law , my dear ; anything to please you .
Just wait a minute ! ''
Then he ran upstairs , for the last time , to the fairy garret , and he put on the wishing cap .
`` No , '' thought he to himself , `` I wo n't wish that .
Every man has one secret from his wife , and this shall be mine . ''
Then he said aloud : `` I wish to SEEM no CLEVERER THAN OTHER PEOPLE . ''
Then he ran downstairs again , and the princess noticed a great difference in him -LRB- though , of course , there was really none at all -RRB- , and so did everyone .
For the prince remained as clever as ever he had been ; but , as nobody observed it , he became the most popular prince , and finally the best-beloved king who had ever sat on the throne of Pantouflia .
But occasionally Rosalind would say , `` I do believe , my dear , that you are really as clever as ever ! ''
And he was !
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___Prince_Ricardo_of_Pantouflia.txt.out
CHAPTER I .
The Troubles of King Prigio .
-LCB- Prince Ricardo and lady tied up : p13.jpg -RCB- `` I 'm sure I do n't know what to do with that boy ! ''
said King Prigio of Pantouflia .
`` If you do n't know , my dear , '' said Queen Rosalind , his illustrious consort , `` I ca n't see what is to be done .
You are so clever . ''
The king and queen were sitting in the royal library , of which the shelves were full of the most delightful fairy books in all languages , all equally familiar to King Prigio .
The queen could not read most of them herself , but the king used to read them aloud to her .
A good many years had passed -- seventeen , in fact -- since Queen Rosalind was married , but you would not think it to look at her .
Her grey eyes were as kind and soft and beautiful , her dark hair as dark , and her pretty colour as like a white rose blushing , as on the day when she was a bride .
And she was as fond of the king as when he was only Prince Prigio , and he was as fond of her as on the night when he first met her at the ball .
`` No , I do n't know what to do with Dick , '' said the king .
He meant his son , Prince Ricardo , but he called him Dick in private .
`` I believe it 's the fault of his education , '' his Majesty went on .
`` We have not brought him up rightly .
These fairy books are at the bottom of his provoking behaviour , '' and he glanced round the shelves .
`` Now , when I was a boy , my dear mother tried to prevent me from reading fairy books , because she did not believe in fairies . ''
`` But she was wrong , you know , '' said the queen .
`` Why , if it had not been for all these fairy presents , the Cap of Darkness and all the rest of them , you never could have killed the Fire-beast and the Ice-beast , and -- you never could have married me , '' the queen added , in a happy whisper , blushing beautifully , for that was a foolish habit of hers .
`` It is quite true , '' said the king , `` and therefore I thought it best to bring Dick up on fairy books , that he might know what is right , and have no nonsense about him .
But perhaps the thing has been overdone ; at all events , it is not a success .
I wonder if fathers and sons will ever understand each other , and get on well together ?
There was my poor father , King Grognio , he wanted me to take to adventures , like other princes , fighting Firedrakes , and so forth ; and I did not care for it , till you set me on , '' and he looked very kindly at her Majesty .
`` And now , here 's Dick , '' the monarch continued , `` I ca n't hold him back .
He is always after a giant , or a dragon , or a magician , as the case may be ; he will certainly be ploughed for his examination at College .
Never opens a book .
What does he care , off after every adventure he can hear about ?
An idle , restless youth !
Ah , my poor country , when I am gone , what may not be your misfortunes under Ricardo ! ''
Here his Majesty sighed , and seemed plunged in thought .
`` But you are not going yet , my dear , '' said the queen .
`` Why you are not forty !
And young people will be young people .
You were quite proud when poor Dick came home with his first brace of gigantic fierce birds , killed off his own sword , and with such a pretty princess he had rescued -- dear Jaqueline ?
I 'm sure she is like a daughter to me .
I can not do without her . ''
`` I wish she were a daughter-in-law ; I wish Dick would take a fancy to marry her , '' said the king .
`` A nicer girl I never saw . ''
`` And so accomplished , '' added Queen Rosalind .
`` That girl can turn herself into anything -- a mouse , a fly , a lion , a wheelbarrow , a church !
I never knew such talent for magic .
Of course she had the best of teachers , the Fairy Paribanou herself ; but very few girls , in our time , devote so many hours to practice as dear Jaqueline .
Even now , when she is out of the schoolroom , she still practises her scales .
I saw her turning little Dollie into a fish and back again in the bath-room last night .
The child was delighted . ''
In these times , you must know , princesses learned magic , just as they learn the piano nowadays ; but they had their music lessons too , dancing , calisthenics , and the use of the globes .
`` Yes , she 's a dear , good girl , '' said the king ; `` yet she looks melancholy .
I believe , myself , that if Ricardo asked her to marry him , she would not say ` No . '
But that 's just one of the things I object to most in Dick .
Round the world he goes , rescuing ladies from every kind of horror -- from dragons , giants , cannibals , magicians ; and then , when a girl naturally expects to be married to him , as is usual , off he rides !
He has no more heart than a flounder .
Why , at his age I -- '' `` At his age , my dear , you were so hard-hearted that you were quite a proverb .
Why , I have been told that you used to ask girls dreadful puzzling questions , like ` Who was Caesar Borgia ? '
` What do you know of Edwin and Morcar ? '
and so on . ''
`` I had not seen you then , '' said the king .
`` And Ricardo has not seen her , whoever she may be .
Besides , he ca n't possibly marry all of them .
And I think a girl should consider herself lucky if she is saved from a dragon or a giant , without expecting to be married next day . ''
`` Perhaps ; but it is usual , '' said the king , `` and their families expect it , and keep sending ambassadors to know what Dick 's intentions are .
I would not mind it all so very much if he killed the monsters off his own sword , as he did that first brace , in fair fight .
But ever since he found his way into that closet where the fairy presents lie , everything has been made too easy for him .
It is a royal road to glory , or giant-slaying made easy .
In his Cap of Darkness a poor brute of a dragon ca n't see him .
In his Shoes of Swiftness the giants ca n't catch him .
His Sword of Sharpness would cut any oak asunder at a blow ! ''
`` But you were very glad of them when you made the Ice-beast and the Fire - beast fight and kill each other , '' said the queen .
`` Yes , my dear ; but it wanted some wit , if I may say so , to do that , and Dick just goes at it hammer and tongs : anybody could do it .
It 's intellect I miss in Ricardo .
How am I to know whether he could make a good fight for it without all these fairy things ?
I wonder what the young rogue is about to-day ?
He 'll be late for dinner , as usual , I daresay .
I ca n't stand want of punctuality at meals , '' remarked his Majesty , which is a sign that he was growing old after all ; for where is the fun of being expected always to come home in time for dinner when , perhaps , you are fishing , and the trout are rising splendidly ?
`` Young people will be young people , '' said the queen .
`` If you are anxious about him , why do n't you look for him in the magic crystal ? ''
Now the magic crystal was a fairy present , a great ball of glass in which , if you looked , you saw the person you wanted to see , and what he was doing , however far away he might be , if he was on the earth at all .
-LCB- 21 -RCB- `` I 'll just take a look at it , '' said the king ; `` it only wants three-quarters of an hour to dinner-time . ''
His Majesty rose , and walked to the crystal globe , which was in a stand , like other globes .
He stared into it , he turned it round and round , and Queen Rosalind saw him grow quite pale as he gazed .
`` I do n't see him anywhere , '' said the king , `` and I have looked everywhere .
I do hope nothing has happened to the boy .
He is so careless .
If he dropped his Cap of Darkness in a fight with a giant , why who knows what might occur ? ''
`` Oh , ` Gio , how you frighten me ! ''
said the queen .
King Prigio was still turning the crystal globe .
`` Stop ! ''
he cried ; `` I see a beautiful princess , fastened by iron chains to a rock beside the sea , in a lonely place .
They must have fixed her up as a sacrifice to a sea-monster , like what 's - her-name . ''
This proves how anxious he was , or , being so clever and learned , he would have remembered that her name was Andromeda .
`` I bet Dick is not far off , where there is an adventure on hand .
But where on earth can he be ?
... My word ! ''
suddenly exclaimed the monarch , in obvious excitement .
`` What is it , dear ? ''
cried the queen , with all the anxiety of a mother .
`` Why , the sea where the girl is , has turned all red as blood ! ''
exclaimed the king .
`` Now it is all being churned up by the tail of a tremendous monster .
He is a whopper !
He 's coming on shore ; the girl is fainting .
He 's out on shore !
He is extremely poorly , blood rushing from his open jaws .
He 's dying !
And , hooray !
here 's Dick coming out of his enormous mouth , all in armour set with sharp spikes , and a sword in his hand .
He 's covered with blood , but he 's well and hearty .
He must have been swallowed by the brute , and cut him up inside .
Now he 's cutting the beast 's head off .
Now he 's gone to the princess ; a very neat bow he has made her .
Dick 's manners are positively improving !
Now he 's cutting her iron chains off with the Sword of Sharpness .
And now he 's made her another bow , and he 's actually taking leave of her .
Poor thing !
How disappointed she is looking .
And she 's so pretty , too .
I say , Rosalind , shall I shout to him through the magic horn , and tell him to bring her home here , on the magic carpet ? ''
`` I think not , dear ; the palace is quite full , '' said the queen .
But the real reason was that she wanted Ricardo to marry her favourite Princess Jaqueline , and she did not wish the new princess to come in the way .
`` As you like , '' said the king , who knew what was in her mind very well .
`` Besides , I see her own people coming for her .
I 'm sorry for her , but it ca n't be helped , and Dick is half-way home by now on the Shoes of Swiftness .
I daresay he will not keep dinner waiting after all .
But what a fright the boy has given me ! ''
At this moment a whirring in the air and a joyous shout were heard .
It was Prince Ricardo flying home on his Seven-league Boots .
`` Hi , Ross ! ''
he shouted , `` just weigh this beast 's head .
I 've had a splendid day with a sea-monster .
Get the head stuffed , will you ?
We 'll have it set up in the billiard-room . ''
`` Yes , Master Dick -- I mean your Royal Highness , '' said Ross , a Highland keeper , who had not previously been employed by a Reigning Family .
`` It 's a fine head , whatever , '' he added , meditatively .
-LCB- Ross weighing the beast 's head : p28.jpg -RCB- Prince Ricardo now came beneath the library window , and gave his parents a brief account of his adventure .
`` I picked the monster up early in the morning , '' he said , `` through the magic telescope , father . ''
`` What country was he in ? ''
said the king .
`` The country people whom I met called it Ethiopia .
They were niggers . ''
`` And in what part of the globe is Ethiopia , Ricardo ? ''
`` Oh !
I do n't know .
Asia , perhaps , '' answered the prince .
The king groaned .
`` That boy will never understand our foreign relations .
Ethiopia in Asia ! ''
he said to himself , but he did not choose to make any remark at the moment .
The prince ran upstairs to dress .
On the stairs he met the Princess Jaqueline .
`` Oh , Dick !
are you hurt ? ''
she said , turning very pale .
`` No , not I ; but the monster is .
I had a capital day , Jack ; rescued a princess , too . ''
`` Was she -- was she very pretty , Dick ? ''
`` Oh !
I do n't know .
Pretty enough , I daresay .
Much like other girls .
Why , you look quite white !
What 's the matter ?
Now you look all right again ; '' for , indeed , the Princess Jaqueline was blushing .
`` I must dress .
I 'm ever so late , '' he said , hurrying upstairs ; and the princess , with a little sigh , went down to the royal drawing-room .
CHAPTER II .
Princess Jaqueline Drinks the Moon .
-LCB- The King and the Prince : p30.jpg -RCB- When dinner was over and the ladies had left the room , the king tried to speak seriously to Prince Ricardo .
This was a thing which he disliked doing very much .
`` There 's very little use in preaching , '' his Majesty used to say , `` to a man , or rather a boy , of another generation .
My taste was for books ; I only took to adventures because I was obliged to do it .
Dick 's taste is for adventures ; I only wish some accident would make him take to books .
But everyone must get his experience for himself ; and when he has got it , he is lucky if it is not too late .
I wish I could see him in love with some nice girl , who would keep him at home . ''
The king did not expect much from talking seriously to Dick .
However , he began by asking questions about the day 's sport , which Ricardo answered with modesty .
Then his Majesty observed that , from all he had ever read or heard , he believed Ethiopia , where the fight was , to be in Africa , not in Asia .
`` I really wish , Ricardo , that you would attend to your geography a little more .
It is most necessary to a soldier that he should know where his enemy is , and if he has to fight the Dutch , for instance , not to start with his army for Central Asia . ''
`` I could always spot them through the magic glass , father , '' said Dick ; `` it saves such a lot of trouble .
I hate geography . ''
`` But the glass might be lost or broken , or the Fairies might take it away , and then where are you ? ''
`` Oh , you would know where to go , or Mr. Belsham . ''
Now Mr. Belsham was his tutor , from Oxford .
`` But I shall not always be here , and when I die -- '' `` Do n't talk of dying , sire , '' said Dick .
`` Why , you are not so very old ; you may live for years yet .
Besides , I ca n't stand the notion .
You must live for ever ! ''
`` That sentiment is unusual in a Crown Prince , '' thought the king ; but he was pleased for all that .
`` Well , to oblige you , I 'll try to struggle against old age , '' he said ; `` but there are always accidents .
Now , Dick , like a good fellow , and to please me , work hard all to-morrow till the afternoon .
I 'll come in and help you .
And there 's always a splendid evening rise of trout in the lake just now , so you can have your play after your work .
You 'll enjoy it more , and I daresay you are tired after a long day with the big game .
It used to tire me , I remember . ''
`` I am rather tired , '' said Dick ; and indeed he looked a little pale , for a day in the inside of a gigantic sea-monster is fatiguing , from the heat and want of fresh air which are usually found in such places .
`` I think I 'll turn in ; goodnight , my dear old governor , '' he said , in an affectionate manner , though he was not usually given to many words .
Then he went and kissed his mother and the Princess Jaqueline , whom he engaged to row him on the lake next evening , while he fished .
`` And do n't you go muffing them with the landing-net , Jack , as you generally do , '' said his Royal Highness , as he lit his bedroom candle .
`` I wish he would not call me Jack , '' said the princess to the queen .
`` It 's better than Lina , my dear , '' said her Majesty , who in late life had become fond of her little joke ; `` that always sounds as if someone else was fatter , -- and I hope there is not someone else . ''
The princess was silent , and fixed her eyes on her book .
Presently the king came in , and played a game with Lina at picquet .
When they were all going to bed , he said : `` Just come into the study , Lina .
I want you to write a few letters for me . ''
The princess followed him and took her seat at the writing table .
The letters were very short .
One was to Herr Schnipp , tailor to the king and royal family ; another was to the royal swordmaker , another to the bootmaker , another to the optician , another to the tradesman who supplied the august family with carpets and rugs , another to his Majesty 's hatter .
They were all summoned to be at the palace early next morning .
Then his Majesty yawned , apologised , and went to bed .
The princess also went to her room , or bower as it was then called , but not to sleep .
She was unhappy that Dick did not satisfy his father , and that he was so careless , and also about other things .
`` And why does the king want all these tailors and hatters so suddenly , telescope-makers and swordmakers and shoemakers , too ? ''
she asked herself , as she stood at the window watching the moon .
`` I could find out .
I could turn myself into a dog or a cat , and go into the room where he is giving his orders .
But that is awkward , for when the servants see Rip '' -LRB- that was the dog -RRB- `` in two places at once , they begin to think the palace is haunted , and it makes people talk .
Besides , I know it is wrong to listen to what one is not meant to hear .
It is often difficult to be a magician and a good girl .
The temptations are so strong , stronger than most people allow for . ''
So she remained , with the moon shining on her pretty yellow hair and her white dress , wondering what the king intended to do , and whether it was something that Dick would not like .
`` How stupid of me , '' she said at length , `` after all the lessons I have had .
Why , I can drink the moon ! ''
Now , this is a way of knowing what anyone else is thinking of and intends to do , for the moon sees and knows everything .
Whether it is quite fair is another matter ; but , at all events , it is not listening .
And anyone may see that , if you are a magician , like the Princess Jaqueline , a great many difficult questions as to what is right and wrong at once occur which do not trouble other people .
King Prigio 's secret , why he sent for the tailor and the other people , was his own secret .
The princess decided that she would not find it out by turning herself into Rip or the cat -LRB- whose name was Semiramis -RRB- , and , so far , she was quite right .
But she was very young , and it never occurred to her that it was just as wrong to find out what the king meant by drinking the moon as by listening in disguise .
As she grew older she learned to know better ; but this is just the danger of teaching young girls magic , and for that very reason it has been given up in most countries .
However , the princess did not think about right and wrong , unluckily .
She went to the bookcase and took down her Cornelius Agrippa , in one great tall black volume , with silver clasps which nobody else could open ; for , as the princess said , there are books which it would never do to leave lying about where the servants or anybody could read them .
Nobody could undo the clasps , however strong or clever he might be ; but the princess just breathed on them and made a sign , and the book flew open at the right place -- Book IV. , chapter vi. , about the middle of page 576 .
The magic spell was in Latin , of course ; but the princess knew Latin very well , and soon she had the magic song by heart .
Then she closed the book and put it back on the shelf .
Then she threw open the window and drew back the curtains , and put out all the lights except two scented candles that burned with a white fire under a round mirror with a silver frame , opposite the window .
And into that mirror the moon shone white and full , filling all the space of it , so that the room was steeped in a strange silver light .
Now the whole room seemed to sway gently , waving and trembling ; and as it trembled it sounded and rang with a low silver music , as if it were filled with the waves of the sea .
Then the princess took a great silver basin , covered with strange black signs and figures raised in the silver .
She poured water into the basin , and as she poured it she sang the magic spell from the Latin book .
It was something like this , in English : `` Oh Lady Moon , on the waters riding , On shining waters , in silver sheen , Show me the secret the heart is hiding , Show me the truth of the thought , oh Queen !
`` Oh waters white , where the moon is riding , That knows what shall be and what has been , Tell me the secret the heart is hiding , Wash me the truth of it , clear and clean ! ''
As she sang the water in the silver basin foamed and bubbled , and then fell still again ; and the princess knelt in the middle of the room , and the moon and the white light from the mirror of the moon fell in the water .
Then the princess raised the basin , and stooped her mouth to it and drank the water , spilling a few drops , and so she drank the moon and the knowledge of the moon .
Then the moon was darkened without a cloud , and there was darkness in the sky for a time , and all the dogs in the world began to howl .
When the moon shone again , the princess rose and put out the two white lights , and drew the curtains ; and presently she went to bed .
-LCB- The Princess drinks the Moon : p41.jpg -RCB- `` Now I know all about it , '' she said .
`` It is clever ; everything the king does is clever , and he is so kind that I daresay he does not mean any harm .
But it seems a cruel trick to play on poor Ricardo .
However , Jaqueline is on the watch , and I 'll show them a girl can do more than people think , '' -- as , indeed , she could .
After meditating in this way , the princess fell sleep , and did not waken till her maid came to call her .
`` Oh !
your Royal Highness , what 's this on the floor ? ''
said the faithful Rosina , as she was arranging the princess 's things for her to get up .
`` Why , what is it ? ''
asked the princess .
`` Ever so many -- four , five , six , seven -- little shining drops of silver lying on the carpet , as if they had melted and fallen there ! ''
`` They have not hurt the carpet ? ''
said the princess .
`` Oh dear !
the queen wo n't be pleased at all .
It was a little chemical experiment I was trying last night . ''
But she knew very well that she must have dropped seven drops of the enchanted water .
`` No , your Royal Highness , the carpet is not harmed , '' said Rosina ; `` only your Royal Highness should do these things in the laboratory .
Her Majesty has often spoke about it . ''
`` You are quite right , '' said the princess ; `` but as there is no harm done , we 'll say nothing about it this time .
And , Rosina , you may keep the silver drops for yourself . ''
`` Your Royal Highness is always very kind , '' said Rosina , which was true ; but how much better and wiser it is not to begin to deceive !
We never know how far we may be carried , and so Jaqueline found out .
For when she went down to breakfast , there was the king in a great state of excitement , for him .
`` It 's most extraordinary , '' said his Majesty .
`` What is ? ''
asked the queen .
`` Why , did n't you notice it ?
No , you had gone to bed before it happened .
But I was taking a walk in the moonlight , on the balcony , and I observed it carefully . ''
`` Observed what , my dear ? ''
asked the queen , who was pouring out the tea .
`` Did n't you see it , Dick ?
Late as usual , you young dog ! ''
the king remarked as Ricardo entered the room .
`` See what , sir ? ''
said Dick .
`` Oh , you were asleep hours before , now I think of it !
But it was the most extraordinary thing , an unpredicted eclipse of the moon !
You must have noticed it , Jaqueline ; you sat up later .
How the dogs howled ! ''
`` No ; I mean yes , '' murmured poor Jaqueline , who of course had caused the whole affair by her magic arts , but who had forgotten , in the excitement of the moment , that an eclipse of the moon , especially if entirely unexpected , is likely to attract very general attention .
Jaqueline could not bear to tell a fib , especially to a king who had been so kind to her ; besides , fibbing would not alter the facts .
`` Yes , I did see it , '' she admitted , blushing .
`` Had it not been predicted ? ''
`` Not a word about it whispered anywhere , '' said his Majesty .
`` I looked up the almanack at once .
It is the most extraordinary thing I ever saw , and I 've seen a good many . ''
`` The astronomers must be duffers , '' said Prince Ricardo .
`` I never thought there was much in physical science of any sort ; most dreary stuff .
Why , they say the earth goes round the sun , whereas any fool can see it is just the other way on . ''
King Prigio was struck aghast by these sentiments in the mouth of his son and heir , the hope of Pantouflia .
But what was the king to say in reply ?
The astronomers of Pantouflia , who conceived that they knew a great deal , had certainly been taken by surprise this time .
Indeed , they have not yet satisfactorily explained this eclipse of the moon , though they have written volumes about it .
`` Why , it may be the sun next ! ''
exclaimed his Majesty .
`` Anything may happen .
The very laws of gravitation themselves may go askew ! ''
At this moment the butler , William , who had been in the queen 's family when she was a girl , entered , and announced : `` Some of the royal tradesmen , by appointment , to see your Majesty . ''
So the king , who had scarcely eaten any breakfast , much to the annoyance of the queen , who was not agitated by eclipses , went out and joined the tailors and the rest of them .
CHAPTER III .
The Adventure of the Shopkeepers .
-LCB- Man with sword : p48.jpg -RCB- Dick went on with his breakfast .
He ate cold pastry , and poached eggs , and ham , and rolls , and raspberry jam , and hot cakes ; and he drank two cups of coffee .
Meanwhile the king had joined the tradesmen who attended by his orders .
They were all met in the royal study , where the king made them a most splendid bow , and requested them to be seated .
But they declined to sit in his sacred presence , and the king observed that , in that case he must stand up .
`` I have invited you here , gentlemen , '' he said , `` on a matter of merely private importance , but I must request that you will be entirely silent as to the nature of your duties .
It is difficult , I know , not to talk about one 's work , but in this instance I am sure you will oblige me . ''
`` Your Majesty has only to command , '' said Herr Schnipp .
`` There have been monarchs , in neighbouring kingdoms , who would have cut off all our heads after we had done a bit of secret business ; but the merest word of your Majesty is law to your loving subjects . ''
The other merchants murmured assent , for King Prigio was really liked by his people .
He was always good-tempered and polite .
He never went to war with anybody .
He spent most of the royal income on public objects , and of course there were scarcely any taxes to speak of .
Moreover , he had abolished what is called compulsory education , or making everybody go to school whether he likes it or not ; a most mischievous and tyrannical measure !
`` A fellow who ca n't teach himself to read , '' said the king , `` is not worth teaching . ''
For all these reasons , and because they were so fond of the queen , his subjects were ready to do anything in reason for King Prigio .
Only one tradesman , bowing very deep and blushing very much , said : `` Your Majesty , will you hear me for one moment ? ''
`` For an hour , with pleasure , Herr Schmidt , '' said the monarch .
`` It is an untradesman-like and an unusual thing to decline an order ; and if your Majesty asked for my heart 's blood , I am ready to shed it , not to speak of anything in the line of my business -- namely , boot and shoe making .
But keep a secret from my wife , I fairly own to your Majesty that I can not . ''
Herr Schmidt went down on his knees and wept .
-LCB- Herr Schmidt went down on his knees : p52.jpg -RCB- `` Rise , Herr Schmidt , '' said the king , taking him by the hand .
`` A more honourable and chivalrous confession of an amiable weakness , if it is to be called a weakness , I never heard .
Sir , you have been true to your honour and your prince , in face of what few men can bear , the chance of ridicule .
There is no one here , I hope , but respects and will keep the secret of Herr Schmidt 's confession ? ''
The assembled shopkeepers could scarcely refrain from tears .
`` Long live King Prigio the Good ! ''
they exclaimed , and vowed that everything should be kept dark .
`` Indeed , sire , '' said the swordmaker , `` all the rest of us are bachelors . ''
`` That is none the worse for my purpose gentlemen , '' said his Majesty ; `` but I trust that you will not long deprive me of sons and subjects worthy to succeed to such fathers .
And now , if Herr Schmidt will kindly find his way to the buttery , where refreshments are ready , I shall have the pleasure of conducting you to the scene of your labours . ''
Thus speaking , the king , with another magnificent bow , led the way upstairs to a little turret-room , in a deserted part of the palace .
Bidding the tradesmen enter , he showed them a large collection of miscellaneous things : an old cap or two , a pair of boots of a sort long out of fashion , an old broadsword , a shabby old Persian rug , an ivory spy - glass , and other articles .
These were , in fact , the fairy presents , which had been given to the king at his christening , and by aid of which -LRB- and his natural acuteness -RRB- he had , in his youth , succeeded in many remarkable adventures .
The caps were the Wishing Cap and the Cap of Darkness .
The rug was the famous carpet which carried its owner through the air wherever he wished to go .
The sword was the Sword of Sharpness .
The ivory glass showed you anyone you wanted to see , however far off .
The boots were the Seven-league Boots , which Hop-o ' - my-Thumb stole from the Ogre about 1697 .
There were other valuable objects , but these were the most useful and celebrated .
Of course the king did not tell the tradesmen what they were .
`` Now , gentlemen , '' said his Majesty , `` you see these old things .
For reasons which I must ask you to excuse me for keeping to myself , I wish you to provide me with objects exactly and precisely similar to these , with all the look of age . ''
The tradesmen examined the objects , each choosing that in his own line of business .
`` As to the sword , sire , '' said the cutler , `` it is an Andrea Ferrara , a fine old blade .
By a lucky accident , I happen to have one at home in a small collection of ancient weapons , exactly like it .
This evening it shall be at your Majesty 's disposal . ''
`` Perhaps , Herr Schnitzler , you will kindly write an order for it , as I wish no one of you to leave the palace , if you can conveniently stay , till your business is finished . ''
`` With pleasure , your Majesty , '' says the cutler .
`` As to the old rug , '' said the upholsterer , `` I have a Persian one quite identical with it at home , at your Majesty 's service . ''
`` Then you can do like Herr Schnitzler , '' who was the cutler .
`` And I , '' said the hatter , `` have two old caps just like these , part of a bankrupt theatrical stock . ''
`` We are most fortunate , '' said the king .
`` The boots , now I come to think of it , are unimportant , at least for the present .
Perhaps we can borrow a pair from the theatre . ''
`` As for the glass , '' said the optician , `` if your Majesty will allow me to take it home with me -- '' `` I am afraid I can not part with it , '' said the king ; `` but that , too , is unimportant , or not very pressing . ''
Then he called for a servant , to order luncheon for the shopkeepers , and paper for them to write their orders on .
But no one was within hearing , and in that very old part of the palace there were no bells .
`` Just pardon me for an instant , while I run downstairs , '' said his Majesty ; `` and , it seems a strange thing to ask , but may I advise you not to sit down on that carpet ?
I have a reason for it . ''
In fact , he was afraid that someone might sit down on it , and wish he was somewhere else , and be carried away , as was the nature of the carpet .
King Prigio was not absent a minute , for he met William on the stairs ; but when he came back , there was not one single person in the turret-room !
`` Where on earth are they ? ''
cried the king , rushing through all the rooms in that part of the castle .
He shouted for them , and looked everywhere ; but there was not a trace of tailor , hatter , optician , swordmaker , upholsterer .
The king hastened to a window over the gate , and saw the sentinels on duty .
`` Hi ! ''
he called .
And the sentinels turned round , looked up , and saluted .
`` Have you seen anyone go out ? ''
he cried .
`` No one , sire , '' answered the soldiers .
The king , who began to guess what had happened , hurried back to the turret-room .
There were all the tradesmen with parcels under their arms .
`` What means this , gentlemen ? ''
said his Majesty , severely .
`` For what reason did you leave the room without my permission ? ''
They all knelt down , humbly imploring his compassion .
`` Get up , you donkeys ! ''
said the king , forgetting his politeness .
`` Get up , and tell me where you have been hiding yourselves . ''
The hatter came forward , and said : `` Sire , you will not believe me ; indeed , I can scarcely believe it myself ! ''
`` Nor none of us ca n't , '' said the swordmaker .
`` We have been home , and brought the articles .
All orders executed with punctuality and dispatch , '' he added , quoting his own advertisement without thinking of it .
On this the swordmaker took out and exhibited the Andrea Ferrara blade , which was exactly like the Sword of Sharpness .
The upholsterer undid his parcel , and there was a Persian rug , which no one could tell from the magical carpet .
The hatter was fumbling with the string of his parcel , when he suddenly remembered , what the king in his astonishment had not noticed , that he had a cap on himself .
He pulled it off in a hurry , and the king at once saw that it was his Wishing Cap , and understood all about the affair .
The hatter , in his absence , had tried on the Wishing Cap , and had wished that he himself and his friends were all at home and back again with their wares at the palace .
And what he wished happened , of course , as was natural .
In a moment the king saw how much talk this business would produce in the country , and he decided on the best way to stop it .
Seizing the Wishing Cap , he put it on , wished all the tradesmen , including the shoemaker , back in the town at their shops , and also wished that none of them should remember anything about the whole affair .
In a moment he was alone in the turret-room .
As for the shopkeepers , they had a kind of idea that they had dreamed something odd ; but , as it went no further , of course they did not talk about it , and nobody was any the wiser .
`` Owl that I am ! ''
said King Prigio to himself .
`` I might have better wished for a complete set of sham fairy things which would not work .
It would have saved a great deal of trouble ; but I am so much out of the habit of using the cap , that I never thought of it .
However , what I have got will do very well . ''
Then , putting on the Cap of Darkness , that nobody might see him , he carried all the real fairy articles away , except the Seven-league Boots , to his own room , where he locked them up , leaving in their place the sham Wishing Cap , the sham Cap of Darkness , the sham Sword of Sharpness , and the carpet which was not a magic carpet at all .
His idea was , of course , that Ricardo would start on an expedition confiding in his fairy things , and he would find that they did not act .
Then he would be left to his own cleverness and courage to get him out of the scrape .
That would teach him , thought the king , to depend on himself , and to set a proper value on cleverness and learning , and minding his book .
Of course he might have locked the things up , and forbidden Ricardo to touch them , but that might have seemed harsh .
And , as you may easily imagine , with all the powers at his command , the king fancied he could easily rescue Ricardo from any very serious danger at the hands of giants or magicians or monsters .
He only wanted to give him a fright or two , and make him respect the judgment of older and wiser people than himself .
CHAPTER IV .
Two Lectures .
-LCB- The Prince with the telescope : p64.jpg -RCB- For several days Prince Ricardo minded his books , and , according to his tutors , made considerable progress in polite learning .
Perhaps he ought not to be praised too highly for this , because , in fact , he saw no means of distinguishing himself by adventures just at that time .
Every morning he would climb the turret and sweep the horizon , and even much beyond the horizon , with the ivory spy-glass .
But look as he would , he saw no monsters preying on human-kind anywhere , nor princesses in distress .
To be sure he saw plenty of poor people in distress , and , being a good-hearted , though careless , lad , Dick would occasionally fly off with the Purse of Fortunatus in his pocket , and give them as much money as they needed -- it cost him nothing .
But this was not the kind of adventure which he enjoyed .
Dragons for his money !
One day the Princess Jaqueline took a curious plan of showing Ricardo how little interest , after all , there is in performing the most wonderful exploits without any real difficulty or danger .
They were drifting before a light breeze on a hill lake ; Ricardo was fishing , and Jaqueline was sculling a stroke now and then , just to keep the boat right with the wind .
Ricardo had very bad sport , when suddenly the trout began to rise all over the lake .
Dick got excited , and stumbled about the boat from stern to bow , tripping over Jaqueline 's feet , and nearly upsetting the vessel in his hurry to throw his flies over every trout he saw feeding .
-LCB- Drifting in a light breeze : p66.jpg -RCB- But , as too often occurs , they were taking one particular fly which was on the water , and would look at nothing else .
`` Oh , bother them ! ''
cried Ricardo .
`` I ca n't find a fly in my book in the least like that little black one they are feeding on ! ''
He tried half-a-dozen different fly-hooks , but all to no purpose ; he lost his temper , got his tackle entangled in Jaqueline 's hair and then in the landing-net ; and , though such a big boy , he was nearly crying with vexation .
The Princess Jaqueline , with great pains and patience , disentangled the casting line , first from her hair , which Ricardo was anxious to cut -LRB- the great stupid oaf , -- her pretty hair ! -RRB-
then from the landing-net ; but Dick had grown sulky .
`` It 's no use , '' he said ; `` I have not a fly that will suit .
Let 's go home , '' and he threw a tin can at a rising trout .
`` Now , Dick , '' said Jaqueline , `` you know I can help you .
I did not learn magic for nothing .
Just you look the other way for a minute or two , and you will find the right fly at the end of your line . ''
Dick turned his head away -LRB- it is not proper to look on at magical arts -RRB- , and then in a moment , saw the right hook on his cast ; but Jaqueline was not in the boat .
She had turned herself into an artificial fly -LRB- a small black gnat -RRB- , and Dick might set to his sport again .
`` What a trump that girl is , '' he said aloud .
`` Clever , too ! ''
and he began casting .
He got a trout every cast , great big ones , over a pound , and soon he had a basketful .
But he began to feel rather bored .
`` There 's not much fun taking them , '' he said , `` when they are so silly . ''
At that very moment he noticed that the fly was off his cast , and Jaqueline was sitting at the oars .
`` You see , Ricardo , '' she said , `` I was right after all .
There is not much pleasure in sport that is easy and certain .
Now , apply this moral to dragon-killing with magic instruments .
It may be useful when one is obliged to defend oneself , but surely a prince ought not to give his whole time to nothing else ! ''
Dick had no answer ready , so he only grumbled : `` You 're always preaching at me , Jack ; everybody always is .
I seem to have been born just to be preached at . ''
Some people are ; and it does grow rather tedious in the long run .
But perhaps what Jaqueline said may have made some impression on Ricardo , for he stuck to his books for weeks , and was got into decimal fractions and Euclid .
All this , of course , pleased the king very much , and he began to entertain hopes of Ricardo 's becoming a wise and learned prince , and a credit to his illustrious family .
Things were not always to go smoothly , far from it ; and it was poor Jaqueline who fell into trouble next .
She had been very ready to lecture Dick , as we saw , and took a good deal of credit to herself for his steadiness .
But one day King Prigio happened to meet Jaqueline 's maid , Rosina , on the stairs ; and as Rosina was a pretty girl , and the king was always kind to his dependents , he stopped to have a chat with her .
`` Why , Rosina , what a pretty little silver cross you are wearing , '' he said , and he lifted a curious ornament which hung from a chain on Rosina 's neck .
It consisted of seven drops of silver , set like this : -LCB- The drops : p72.jpg -RCB- `` May I look at it ? ''
his Majesty asked , and Rosina , all in a flutter , took it off and gave if to him .
`` H 'm ! ''
said the king .
`` Very curious and pretty !
May I ask you where you got this , Rosina ? ''
-LCB- `` H 'm ! ''
said the king .
`` Very curious and pretty ! ''
: p73.jpg -RCB- Now Rosina generally had her answer ready , and I am very sorry to say that she did not always speak the truth when she could think of anything better .
On this occasion she was anxious to think of something better , for fear of getting Jaqueline into a scrape about the chemical experiment in her bedroom .
But Rosina was fluttered , as we said , by the royal kindness , and she could think of nothing but to curtsy , and say : `` Please , your Majesty , the princess gave me the drops . ''
`` Very interesting , '' said the king .
`` There is a little white moon shining in each of them !
I wonder if they shine in the dark ? ''
He opened the door of a cupboard which had no windows , where the housemaid kept her mops and brooms , and shut himself in .
Yes , there was no mistake ; the darkness was quite lighted up with the sheen of the seven little moons in the silver .
The king looked rather grave .
`` If you can trust me with this cross till to-morrow , Rosina , I should like to have it examined and analysed .
This is no common silver . ''
Of course Rosina could only curtsy , but she was very much alarmed about the consequences to her mistress .
After luncheon , the king asked Jaqueline to come into his study , as he often did , to help him with his letters .
When they had sat down his Majesty said : `` My dear Jaqueline , I never interfere with your pursuits , but I almost doubt whether Cornelius Agrippa is a good book for a very young lady to read .
The Fairy Paribanou , I am sure , taught you nothing beyond the ordinary magical accomplishments suited to your rank ; but there are a great many things in the Cornelius which I think you should not study till you are older and wiser . ''
`` What does your Majesty mean ? ''
said poor Jaqueline , feeling very uncomfortable ; for the king had never lectured her before .
`` Why , '' said his Majesty , taking the silver cross out of his pocket , `` did you not give this to Rosina ? ''
`` Yes , sire , I did give her the drops .
She had them made up herself . ''
`` Then give it back to her when you see her next .
I am glad you are frank , Jaqueline .
And you know , of course , that the drops are not ordinary silver ?
They are moon silver , and that can only be got in one way , so far as I know , at least -- when one spills the water when he , or she , is drinking the moon .
Now , there is only one book which tells how that can be done , and there is only one reason for doing it ; namely , to find out what is some other person 's secret .
I shall not ask you whose secret you wanted to find out , but I must request you never to do such a thing again without consulting me .
You can have no reason for it , such as a great king might have whose enemies are plotting against his country . ''
`` Oh , sire , I will tell you everything ! ''
cried Jaqueline .
`` No , do n't ; I do n't want to know .
I am sure you will make no use of your information which you think I should not approve of .
But there is another thing -- that eclipse of the moon !
Oh , Jaqueline , was it honourable , or fair to the astronomers and men of science , to say nothing about it ?
Their European reputations are seriously injured . ''
Poor Jaqueline could only cry .
`` Never mind , '' said his Majesty , comforting her .
`` There is no great harm done yet , and perhaps they would not believe you if you did explain ; but just think , if some people ceased to believe in Science , what would they have left to believe in ?
But you are young , of course , and can not be expected to think of everything . ''
`` I never thought about it at all , '' wept Jaqueline . ''
` Evil is wrought by want of thought , ' '' said the king , quoting the poet .
`` Now run away , dry your tears , and I think you had better bring me that book , and I 'll put it back in one of the locked-up shelves .
Later , when you are older , we shall see about it . ''
The princess flew to her room , and returned with her book .
And the king kissed her , and told her to go and see if her Majesty meant to take a drive .
`` I 'll never deceive him again , never ... unless it is quite necessary , '' said the princess to herself .
`` Indeed , it is not so easy to deceive the king .
What a lot he has read ! ''
In fact , King Prigio had been very studious when a young man , before he came to the throne .
`` Poor child ! ''
thought the king .
`` No doubt she was trying her fortune , wondering if Ricardo cares for her a little .
Of course I could not let her tell me that , poor child ! ''
In this guess , as we know , his Majesty was mistaken , which seldom happened to him .
`` I wonder who she is ? ''
the king went on speaking to himself .
`` That great booby , Ricardo , saved her from wild birds , which were just going to eat her .
She was fastened to a mountain top , but where ?
that 's the question .
Ricardo never has any notion of geography .
It was across the sea , he noticed that ; but which sea , -- Atlantic , Pacific , the Black Sea , the Caspian , the Sea of Marmora , the Red Sea , the Indian Ocean , the German Ocean , the Mediterranean ?
Her ornaments were very peculiar ; there was a broad gold sun on her breast .
I must look at them again some day .
She said she was being sacrificed to wild birds -LRB- which her people worshipped -RRB- , because there was some famine , or war , or trouble in the country .
She said she was a Daughter of the Sun ; but that , of course , is absurd , unless -- By Jove !
I believe I have it , '' said the king , and he went into the royal library and was looking for some old Spanish book , when his secretary came and said that the Russian Ambassador was waiting for an interview with his Majesty .
`` Dismal old Muscovite ! ''
sighed the king .
`` A monarch has not a moment to himself for his private studies .
Ah , Prigio !
why wert thou not born to a private station ?
But Duty before everything , '' and wreathing his royal countenance in smiles , his Majesty prepared to give Count Snoreonski an audience .
It was all about the attitude of Pantouflia in the event of a Polish invasion of Russia .
The king reassured Count Snoreonski , affirming that Pantouflia , while deeply regretting the disturbed relations between two States in whose welfare she was deeply interested , would ever preserve an attitude of benevolent neutrality , unless her own interests were threatened .
`` I may give your message to my august mistress , the Czarina ? ''
said the ambassador .
`` By all means , adding an expression of my tender interest in her Majesty 's health and welfare , '' said the king , presenting the count at the same time with a magnificent diamond snuffbox containing his portrait .
The old count was affected to tears , and withdrew , while King Prigio said : `` I have not lost a day ; I have made an amiable but very stupid man happy . ''
Such are , or rather such were , the toils of monarchs !
CHAPTER V. Prince Ricardo Crosses the Path of History .
-LCB- Hand reaching for a crown with wings : p83.jpg -RCB- `` I say , Jack , '' said Prince Ricardo one morning , `` here 's a queer letter for me ! ''
King Prigio had gone to a distant part of his dominions , on business of importance , and the young people were sitting in the royal study .
The letter , which Ricardo handed to Jaqueline , was written on a great broad sheet of paper , folded up without any envelope , as was the custom then , and was sealed with a huge seal in red wax .
`` I do n't know the arms , '' Ricardo said .
`` Oh , Ricardo , how you do neglect your Heraldry !
Old Green Stocking is in despair over your ignorance . ''
Now Green Stocking was the chief herald of Pantouflia , just like Blue Mantle in England .
`` Why , these are the Royal Arms of England , you great ignorant Dick ! ''
`` But Rome is n't in England , is it ?
-- and the post-mark is ` Roma ' : that 's Rome in some lingo , I expect .
It is in Latin , anyhow , I know .
Mortuus est Romae -- ` He died at Rome . '
It 's in the Latin Grammar .
Let 's see what the fellow says , anyhow , '' added Ricardo , breaking the seal .
`` He begins , ` Prins and dear Cousin ! '
I say , Jaqueline , he spells it ` Prins ; ' now it is P-R-I-N-C-E .
He must be an ignorant fellow ! ''
`` People in glass houses should not throw stones , Dick , '' said Jaqueline .
`` He signs himself ` Charles , P. W. , ' '' said Ricardo , looking at the end .
`` Who on earth can he be ?
Why does he not put ` P. W. Charles , ' if these are his initials ?
Look here , it 's rather a long letter ; you might read it to us , Jack ! ''
The princess took the epistle and began : `` How nice it smells , all scented !
The paper is gilt-edged , too . ''
`` Luxurious beggar , whoever he is , '' said Ricardo .
`` Well , he says : ` Prins and dear Cousin , -- You and me ' -LRB- oh , what grammar ! -RRB-
` are much the same age , I being fifteen next birthday , and we should be better ackwainted .
All the wurld has herd of the fame of Prins Ricardo , whose name is feerd , and his sord dreded , wherever there are Monsters and Tirants .
Prins , you may be less well informed about my situation .
I have not killed any Dragguns , there being nun of them here ; but I have been under fiar , at Gaeta . '
Where 's Gaeta , Dick ? ''
`` Never heard of it , '' said Ricardo .
`` Well , it is in Italy , and it was besieged lately .
He goes on : ` and I am told that I did not misbehave myself , nor disgrace the blud of Bruce . ' ''
`` I 've heard of Robert Bruce , '' said Dick ; `` he was the man who did not kill the spider , but he cracked the head of Sir Harry Bohun with one whack of his axe .
I remember him well enough . ''
`` Well , your correspondent seems to be a descendant of his . ''
`` That 's getting more interesting , '' said Dick .
`` I wish my father would go to war with somebody .
With the Sword of Sharpness I 'd make the enemy whistle !
Drive on , Jack . '' ''
` As a prins in distress , I apeal to your valler , so renouned in Europe .
I am kept out of my own ; my royal father , King Gems , ' -- well , this is the worst spelling I ever saw in my life !
He means King James , -- ` my royal father , King Gems , being druv into exile by a crewl Usurper , the Elector of Hannover .
King Gems is old , and likes a quiat life ; but I am determined to make an effort , if I go alone , and Europe shall here of Prince Charles .
Having heard -- as who has not ?
-- of your royal Highness 's courage and sordsmanship , I throw myself at your feet , and implore you to asist a prins in distres .
Let our sords be drawn together in the caus of freedom and an outraged country , my own . '' '
I remain , '' ` Prins and dear Cuzen , '' ` CHARLES , P. W. ' `` P. W. means Prince of Wales , '' added Jaqueline .
`` He is turned out of England you know , and lives at Rome with his father . ''
`` I like that chap , '' said Prince Ricardo .
`` He does not spell very well , as you say , but I sometimes make mistakes myself ; and I like his spirit .
I 've been looking out for an adventure ; but the big game is getting shy , and my sword rusts in his scabbard .
I 'll tell you what , Jack -- I 've an idea !
I 'll put him on the throne of his fathers ; it 's as easy as shelling peas : and as for that other fellow , the Elector , I 'll send him back to Hanover , wherever that may be , and he can go on electing , and polling his vote in peace and quietness , at home .
Just wait till I spot the places . ''
The prince ran up to the turret , fetched the magic spy-glass , and looked up London , Rome , and Hanover , as you would in a map .
`` Well , Dick , but how do you mean to do it ? ''
`` Do it ?
-- nothing simpler !
I just take my Seven-league Boots , run over to Rome , pick up Prince Charles , put him on the magic carpet , fly to London , clap the Cap of Darkness on him so that nobody can see him , set him down on the throne of his fathers ; pick up the Elector , carry him over to his beloved Hanover , and the trick is done -- what they call a bloodless revolution in the history books . ''
`` But if the English do n't like Prince Charles when they get him ? ''
`` Like him ?
they 're sure to like him , a young fellow like that !
Besides , I 'll take the sword with me in case of accidents . ''
`` But , Dick , it is your father 's rule that you are never to meddle in the affairs of other countries , and never to start on an expedition when he is not at home . ''
`` Oh , he wo n't mind this time !
There 's no kind of danger ; and I 'm sure he will approve of the principle of the thing .
Kings must stick up for each other .
Why , some electing characters might come here and kick us out ! ''
`` Your father is not the sort of king who is kicked out , '' said Jaqueline .
But there was no use in talking to Dick .
He made his simple preparations , and announced that he would be back in time for luncheon .
What was poor Jaqueline to do ?
She was extremely anxious .
She knew , as we saw , what King Prigio had intended about changing the fairy things for others that would not work .
She was certain Dick would get himself into a scrape ; how was she to help him ?
She made up her mind quickly , while Dick was putting his things together .
She told the queen -LRB- it was the nearest to the truth she could think of -RRB- that she `` was going for a turn with Dick . ''
Then she changed herself into a mosquito -- a kind of gnat that bites -- and hid herself under a fold of Dick 's coat .
Of course he knew nothing about her being there .
Then he started off in his Seven - league Boots , and before you could say `` Jack Robinson '' he was in Rome , in the grounds of a splendid palace called the Villa Borghese .
There he saw an elderly gentleman , in a great curled wig , sound asleep on a seat beneath a tree .
The old gentleman had a long , pale , melancholy face , and across his breast was a broad blue ribbon with a star .
Ah !
how changed was King James from the handsome Prince who had loved fair Beatrix Esmond , thirty years ago !
Near him were two boys , not quite so old as Prince Ricardo .
The younger was a pretty dark boy , with a funny little roundabout white wig .
He was splendidly dressed in a light-blue silk coat ; a delicate little lace scarf was tied round his neck ; he had lace ruffles falling about his little ringed hands ; he had a pretty sword , with a gold handle set with diamonds -- in fact , he was the picture of a little dandy .
The other lad had a broad Scotch bonnet on , and no wig ; beautiful silky yellow locks fell about his shoulders .
He had laid his sword on the grass .
He was dressed in tartan , which Ricardo had never seen before ; and he wore a kilt , which was also new to Ricardo , who wondered at his bare legs -- for he was wearing shoes with no stockings .
In his hand he held a curious club , with a long , slim handle , and a head made heavy with lead , and defended with horn .
With this he was aiming at a little white ball ; and suddenly he swung up the club and sent the ball out of sight in the air , over several trees .
Prince Ricardo stepped up to this boy , took off his cap , and said : `` I think I have the honour of addressing the Prince of Wales ? ''
Prince Charles started at the sight of a gentleman in long riding-boots , girt with a broadsword , which was not then generally worn , and carrying a Persian rug under his arm .
`` That is what I am called , sir , '' he said , `` by those who give me the title which is mine by right .
May I inquire the reason which offers me the pleasure of this unexpected interview ? ''
`` Oh , I 'm Ricardo of Pantouflia ! ''
says Dick .
`` I had a letter from you this morning , and I believe you wanted to see me . ''
`` From Pantouflia , sir , '' said Prince Charles ; `` why , that is hundreds of leagues away ! ''
`` It is a good distance , '' said Dick ; `` but a mere step when you wear Seven - league Boots like mine . ''
`` My dear prince , '' said Charles , throwing himself into his arms with rapture , and kissing him in the Italian fashion , which Dick did not half like , `` you are , indeed , worthy of your reputation ; and these are the celebrated Seven-league Boots ?
Harry , '' he cried to his brother , `` come here at once and let me present you to his Royal Highness , our illustrious ally , Prince Ricardo of Pantouflia .
The Duke of York -- Prince Ricardo of Pantouflia .
Gentlemen , know each other ! ''
The prince bowed in the most stately manner .
`` I say , '' said Dick , who was seldom at all up to the standard of royal conversation , `` what 's that game you were playing ?
It 's new to me .
You sent the ball a tremendous long shot . ''
`` The game is called golf , and is the favourite pastime of my loyal Scottish subjects , '' said Prince Charles .
`` For that reason , that I may be able to share the amusements of my people , whom I soon hope to lead to a glorious victory , followed by a peaceful and prosperous reign , I am acquiring a difficult art .
I 'm practising walking without stockings , too , to harden my feet , '' he said , in a more familiar tone of voice .
`` I fancy there are plenty of long marches before me , and I would not be a spear 's length behind the hardiest Highlander . ''
`` By Jove !
I respect you , '' said Dick , with the greatest sincerity ; `` but I do n't think , with me on your side , you will need to make many marches .
It will all be plain sailing . ''
`` Pray explain your plan , '' said Prince Charles .
`` The task of conquering back the throne of my fathers is not so simple as you seem to suppose . ''
`` I 've done a good many difficult things , '' said Dick , modestly .
`` The conqueror of the magician , Gorgonzola , and the Giant Who never Knew when he had Enough , need not tell me that , '' said Prince Charles , with a courteous allusion to two of Ricardo 's most prodigious adventures .
`` Oh !
I 've very little to be proud of , really , '' said Dick , blushing ; `` anyone could do as much with my fairy things , of which , no doubt , you have heard .
With a Sword of Sharpness and a Cap of Darkness , and so forth , you have a great pull over almost anything . ''
`` And you really possess those talismans ? ''
said the prince .
`` Certainly I do .
You see how short a time I took in coming to your call from Pantouflia . ''
`` And has Holy Church , '' asked the Duke of York , with anxiety , `` given her sanction and her blessing to those instruments of an art , usually , in her wisdom , forbidden ? ''
`` Oh , never mind Holy Church , Harry ! ''
said Prince Charles .
`` This is business .
Besides , the English are Protestants . ''
`` I pray for their conversion daily , '' said the Duke of York .
`` The end justifies the means , you know , '' answered Prince Charles .
`` All 's fair in love and war . ''
`` I should think so , '' said Ricardo , `` especially against those brutes of Electors ; they give trouble at home sometimes . ''
`` You , too , are plagued with an Elector ? ''
asked Prince Charles . ''
An Elector ?
thousands of them ! ''
answered Dick , who never could understand anything about politics .
Prince Charles looked puzzled , but requested Dick to explain his great plan .
They sat down on the grass , and Ricardo showed them how he meant to manage it , just as he had told Jaqueline .
As he said , nothing could be simpler .
`` Let 's start at once , '' he said , and , inducing Prince Charles to sit down on the magic carpet , he cried : `` England !
St. James 's Palace ! ''
But nothing happened !
The carpet was not the right magic carpet , but the one which King Prigio had put in its place .
`` Get on !
England , I said ! ''
cried Dick .
But there they remained , under the chestnut tree , sitting on the carpet above the flowery grass .
-LCB- But there they remained : p99.jpg -RCB- Prince Charles leaped to his feet ; his face like fire , his eyes glowing .
`` Enough of this fooling , sir ! ''
he said .
`` It is easy , but cowardly , to mock at an unfortunate prince .
Take your carpet and be off with you , out of the gardens , or your shoulders shall taste my club . ''
`` There has been some mistake , '' Ricardo said ; `` the wrong carpet has been brought by accident , or the carpet has lost its power . ''
`` In this sacred city , blessed by the presence of his Holiness the Pope , and the relics of so many martyrs and saints , magic may well cease to be potent , '' said the Duke of York .
`` Nonsense !
You are an impostor , sir !
Leave my presence ! ''
cried Prince Charles , lifting his golf-club .
Dick caught it out of his hand , and broke across his knee as fine a driver as ever came from Robertson 's shop at St. Andrew 's .
`` The quarrels of princes are not settled with clubs , sir !
Draw and defend yourself ! ''
he said , kicking off his boots and standing in his socks on the grass .
Think of the horror of poor Jaqueline , who witnessed this terrible scene of passion from a fold in Prince Ricardo 's dress !
What could the girl do to save the life of two princes , the hopes of one nation , and of a respectable minority in another ?
In a moment Prince Charles 's rapier was shining in the sunlight , and he fell on guard in the most elegant attitude , his left hand gracefully raised and curved .
Dick drew his sword , but , as suddenly , threw it down again .
`` Hang it ! ''
he exclaimed , `` I ca n't hit you with this !
This is the Sword of Sharpness ; it would cut through your steel and your neck at a touch . ''
He paused , and thought .
`` Let me beseech your Royal Highness , '' he said to the Duke of York , who was in a terrible taking , `` to lend your blade to a hand not less royal than your own . ''
`` Give him it , Hal ! ''
said Prince Charles , who was standing with the point of his sword on the ground , and the blade bent .
`` He seems to believe in his own nonsense . ''
The duke yielded his sword ; Dick took it , made a nourish , and rushed at Prince Charles .
Now Ricardo had always neglected his fencing lessons .
`` Where 's the good of it , '' he used to ask , `` all that stamping , and posture-making , and ha - haing ?
The Sword of Sharpness is enough for me . ''
But now he could not , in honour , use the Sword of Sharpness ; so on he came , waving the rapier like a claymore , and made a slice at Prince Charles 's head .
The prince , very much surprised , parried in prime , riposted , and touched Dick on the hand .
At this moment the Princess Jaqueline did what she should have thought of sooner .
She flew out of Dick 's coat , and stung old King James on his royal nose .
The king wakened , nearly crushed the princess -LRB- so dangerous is the practice of magic to the artist -RRB- , and then leaped up , and saw Dick 's blade flying through the air , glittering in the sun .
The prince had disarmed him .
`` Hullo !
what 's all this ?
A moi , mes gardes ! ''
cried the old king , in French and English ; and then he ran up , just in time to hear Prince Charles say : `` Sir , take your life !
I can not strike an unarmed man .
A prince you may be , but you have not learned the exercises of gentlemen . ''
`` What is all this , Carluccio ? ''
asked the old king .
`` Swords out !
brawling in my very presence !
blood drawn ! ''
for Dick 's hand was bleeding a good deal .
Prince Charles , as briefly as possible , explained the unusual nature of the circumstances .
`` A king must hear both sides , '' said King James .
`` What reply have you , sir , to make to his Royal Highness 's statements ? ''
`` The carpet would not work , sir , '' said Dick .
`` It never happened before .
Had I used my own sword , '' and he explained its properties , `` the Prince of Wales would not be alive to tell his story .
I can say no more , beyond offering my apology for a disappointment which I could not have foreseen .
A gentleman can only say that he is sorry .
But wait ! ''
he added ; `` I can at least prove that my confidence in some of my resources is not misplaced .
Bid me bring you something -- anything -- from the ends of the earth , and it shall be in your hands .
I ca n't say fairer . ''
King James reflected , while Prince Ricardo was pulling on the Seven-league Boots , which he had kicked off to fight more freely , and while the Duke of York bandaged Dick 's hand with a kerchief .
`` Bring me , '' said his Majesty , `` Lord Lovat 's snuff-mull . ''
`` Where does he live ? ''
said Dick .
`` At Gortuleg , in Scotland , '' answered King James .
Dick was out of sight before the words were fairly spoken , and in ten minutes was back , bearing a large ram 's - horn snuff-box , with a big cairngorm set in the top , and the Frazer arms .
`` Most astonishing ! ''
said King James .
`` A miracle ! ''
said the Duke of York .
`` You have entirely cleared your character , '' said the king .
`` Your honour is without a stain , though it is a pity about the carpet .
Your nobility in not using your magical sword , under the greatest provocation , reconciles me to this fresh blighting of my hopes .
All my allies fail me , '' said the poor king with a sigh ; `` you alone have failed with honour .
Carluccio , embrace the prince ! ''
They fell into each other 's arms .
`` Prince , '' said Dick , `` you have taught me a lesson for which I shall not be ungrateful .
With any blade a gentleman should be able to hold his own in fair fight .
I shall no longer neglect my fencing lessons . ''
`` With any blade , '' said Prince Charles , `` I shall be happy to find Prince Ricardo by my side in a stricken field .
We shall not part till I have induced you to accept a sword which I can never hope to draw against another adversary so noble .
In war , my weapon is the claymore . ''
Here the prince offered to Ricardo the ruby-studded hilt of his rapier , which had a beautiful white shark-skin sheath .
`` You must accept it , sir , '' said King James ; `` the hilt holds the rubies of John Sobieski . ''
`` Thank you , prince , '' said Ricardo , `` for the weapon , which I shall learn to wield ; and I entreat you to honour me by receiving this fairy gift -- which you do not need -- a ring which makes all men faithful to the wearer . ''
The Prince of Wales bowed , and placed the talisman on his finger .
Ricardo then , after a few words of courtesy on both parts , picked up his useless carpet , took his farewell of the royal party , and , with Jaqueline still hidden under his collar , returned at full speed , but with a heavy heart , to Pantouflia , where the palace gong was just sounding for luncheon .
Ricardo never interfered in foreign affairs again , but his ring proved very useful to Prince Charles , as you may have read in history .
CHAPTER VI .
Ricardo 's Repentance .
-LCB- Bottle of weapon salve : p109.jpg -RCB- The queen , as it happened fortunately , was lunching with one of the ladies of her Court .
Ricardo did not come down to luncheon , and Jaqueline ate hers alone ; and very mournful she felt .
The prince had certainly not come well out of the adventure .
He had failed -LRB- as all attempts to restore the Stuarts always did -RRB- ; he had been wounded , though he had never received a scratch in any of his earlier exploits ; and if his honour was safe , and his good intentions fully understood , that was chiefly due to Jaqueline , and to the generosity of King James and Prince Charles .
`` I wonder what he 's doing ? ''
she said to herself , and at last she went up and knocked at Ricardo 's door .
`` Go away , '' he said ; `` I do n't want to see anybody .
Who is it ? ''
`` It 's only me -- Jaqueline . ''
-LCB- `` It 's only me '' : p111.jpg -RCB- `` Go away !
I want nobody . ''
`` Do let me in , dear Dick ; I have good news for you , '' said the princess .
`` What is it ? ''
said Ricardo , unlocking the door .
`` Why do you bother a fellow so ? ''
He had been crying -- his hand obviously hurt him badly ; he looked , and indeed he was , very sulky .
`` How did you get on in England , Dick ? ''
asked the princess , taking no notice of his bandaged hand .
`` Oh , do n't ask me ! ''
said Ricardo .
`` I 've not been to England at all . ''
`` Why , what happened ? ''
`` Everything that is horrid happened , '' said Dick ; and then , unable to keep it any longer to himself , he said : `` I 've failed to keep my promise ; I 've been insulted , I 've been beaten by a fellow younger than myself ; and , oh !
how my hand does hurt , and I 've got such a headache !
And what am I to say to my mother when she asks why my arm is in a sling ?
and what will my father say ?
I 'm quite broken down and desperate .
I think I 'll run away to sea ; '' and indeed he looked very wild and miserable .
`` Tell me how it all happened , Dick , '' said the princess ; `` I 'm sure it 's not so bad as you make out .
Perhaps I can help you . ''
`` How can a girl help a man ? ''
cried Dick , angrily ; and poor Jaqueline , remembering how she had helped him , at the risk of her own life , when King James nearly crushed her in the shape of a mosquito , turned her head away , and cried silently .
`` I 'm a beast , '' said Dick .
`` I beg your pardon , Jack dear .
You are always a trump , I will say ; but I do n't see what you can do . ''
Then he told her all the story -LRB- which , of course , she knew perfectly well already -RRB- , except the part played by the mosquito , of which he could not be aware .
`` I was sure it was not so bad as you made it out , Dick , '' she said .
`` You see , the old king , who is not very wise , but is a perfectly honourable gentleman , gave you the highest praise . ''
She thought of lecturing him a little about disobeying his father , but it did not seem a good opportunity .
Besides , Jaqueline had been lectured herself lately , and had not enjoyed it .
`` What am I to say to my mother ? ''
Dick repeated .
`` We must think of something to say , '' said Jaqueline .
`` I ca n't tell my mother anything but the truth , '' Ricardo went on .
`` Here 's my hand , how it does sting !
and she must find out . ''
`` I think I can cure it , '' said Jaqueline .
`` Did n't you say Prince Charles gave you his own sword ? ''
`` Yes , there it is ; but what has that to do with it ? ''
`` Everything in the world to do with it , my dear Dick .
How lucky it is that he gave it to you ! ''
And she ran to her own room , and brought a beautiful golden casket , which contained her medicines .
Taking out a small phial , marked -LRB- in letters of emerald -RRB- : `` WEAPON SALVE , '' the princess drew the bright sword , extracted a little of the ointment from the phial , and spread it on a soft silk handkerchief .
`` What are you going to do with the sword ? ''
asked Ricardo .
`` Polish it a little , '' said Jaqueline , smiling , and she began gently to rub , with the salve , the point of the rapier .
As she did so , Ricardo 's arm ceased to hurt , and the look of pain passed from his mouth .
`` Why , I feel quite better ! ''
he said .
`` I can use my hand as well as ever . ''
Then he took off the stained handkerchief , and , lo , there was not even a mark where the wound had been !
For this was the famous Weapon Salve which you may read about in Sir Kenelm Digby , and which the Lady of Branxholme used , in The Lay of the Last Minstrel .
But the secret of making it has long been lost , except in Pantouflia .
`` You are the best girl in the world , Jaqueline , '' said Ricardo .
`` You may give me a kiss if you like ; and I wo n't call you ` Jack , ' or laugh at you for reading books , any more .
There 's something in books after all . ''
The princess did not take advantage of Dick 's permission , but advised him to lie down and try to sleep .
`` I say , though , '' he said , `` what about my father ? ''
`` The king need never be told anything about it , '' said Jaqueline , `` need he ? ''
`` Oh , that wo n't do !
I tell my father everything ; but then , I never had anything like this to tell him before .
Do n't you think , Jaqueline , you might break it to him ?
He 's very fond of you .
Just tell him what I told you ; it 's every word of it true , and he ought to know .
He might see something about it in the Mercure de France . ''
This was the newspaper of the period .
`` I do n't think it will get into the papers , '' said Jaqueline , smiling .
`` Nobody could tell , except the king and the princes , and they have reasons for keeping it to themselves . ''
`` I do n't trust that younger one , '' said Dick , moodily ; `` I do n't care for that young man .
Anyway , my father must be told ; and , if you wo n't , I must . ''
`` Well , I 'll tell him , '' said Jaqueline .
`` And now lie down till evening . ''
After dinner , in the conservatory , Jaqueline told King Prigio all about it .
His Majesty was very much moved .
`` What extraordinary bad luck that family has ! ''
he thought .
`` If I had not changed the rug , the merest accident , Prince Charles would have dined at St. James 's to-night , and King George in Hanover .
It was the very nearest thing ! ''
`` This meddling with practical affairs will never do , '' he said aloud .
`` Dick has had a lesson , sire , '' said the princess .
`` He says he 'll never mix himself up with politics again , whatever happens .
And he says he means to study all about them , for he feels frightfully ignorant , and , above all , he means to practise his fencing . ''
These remarks were not part of the conversation between Ricardo and Jaqueline , but she considered that Dick meant all this , and , really , he did .
`` That is well , as far as it goes , '' said the king .
`` But , Jaqueline , about that mosquito ? ''
for she had told him this part of the adventure .
`` That was a very convenient mosquito , though I do n't know how Dick was able to observe it from any distance .
I see your hand in that , my dear , and I am glad you can make such kind and wise use of the lessons of the good Fairy Paribanou .
Jaqueline , '' he added solemnly , laying his hand on her head , `` You have saved the honour of Pantouflia , which is dearer to me than life .
Without your help , I tremble to think what might have occurred . ''
The princess blushed very much , and felt very happy .
`` Now run away to the queen , my dear , '' said his Majesty , `` I want to think things over . ''
He did think them over , and the more he thought the more he felt the inconvenience attending the possession of fairy things .
`` An eclipse one day , as nearly as possible a revolution soon after ! ''
he said to himself .
`` But for Jaqueline , Ricardo 's conduct would have been blazed abroad , England would have been irritated .
It is true she can not get at Pantouflia very easily ; we have no sea-coast , and we are surrounded by friendly countries .
But it would have been a ticklish and discreditable position .
I must really speak to Dick , '' which he did next morning after breakfast .
`` You have broken my rules , Ricardo , '' he said .
`` True , there is no great harm done , and you have confessed frankly ; but how am I to trust you any longer ? ''
`` I 'll give you my sacred word of honour , father , that I 'll never meddle with politics again , or start on an expedition , without telling you .
I have had enough of it .
And I 'll turn over a new leaf .
I 've learned to be ashamed of my ignorance ; and I 've sent for Francalanza , and I 'll fence every day , and read like anything . ''
`` Very good , '' said the king .
`` I believe you mean what you say .
Now go to your fencing lesson . ''
`` But , I say , father , '' cried Ricardo , `` was it not strange about the magic carpet ? ''
`` I told you not to trust to these things , '' said the king .
`` Some enchanter may have deprived it of its power , it may be worn out , someone may have substituted a common Persian rug ; anything may happen .
You must learn to depend on yourself .
Now , be off with you , I 'm busy .
And remember , you do n't stir without my permission . ''
The prince ran off , and presently the sounds of stamping feet and '' un , deux ; doublez , degagez , vite ; contre de carte , '' and so forth , might be heard over a great part of the royal establishment .
CHAPTER VII .
Prince Ricardo and an Old Enemy .
-LCB- The Yellow Dwarf : p123.jpg -RCB- `` There is one brute I wish I could get upsides with , '' said Ricardo , at breakfast one morning , his mouth full of sardine .
`` Really , Ricardo , your language is most unprincely , '' said his august father ; `` I am always noticing it .
You mean , I suppose , that there is one enemy of the human race whom you wish to abolish .
What is the name of the doomed foe ? ''
`` Well , he is the greatest villain in history , '' said Ricardo .
`` You must have read about him , sir , the Yellow Dwarf . ''
`` Yes , I have certainly studied what is told us about him , '' said the king .
`` He is no favourite of mine . ''
`` He is the only one , if you notice , sir , of all the scoundrels about whom our ancestors inform us , who escaped the doom which he richly merited at the sword of a good knight . ''
You may here remark that , since Dick took to his studies , he could speak , when he chose , like a printed book , which was by no means the case before .
`` If you remember , sir , he polished off -- I mean , he slew -- the King of the Golden Mines and the beautiful , though frivolous , Princess Frutilla .
All that the friendly Mermaid could do for them was to turn them into a pair of beautiful trees which intertwine their branches .
Not much use in that , sir !
And nothing was done to the scoundrel .
He may be going on still ; and , with your leave , I 'll go and try a sword-thrust with him .
Francalanza says I 'm improving uncommon . ''
`` You 'll take the usual Sword of Sharpness , '' said his Majesty .
`` What , sir , to a dwarf ?
Not I , indeed : a common small sword is good enough to settle him . ''
`` They say he is very cunning of fence , '' said the king ; `` and besides , I have heard something of a diamond sword that he stole from the King of the Golden Mines . ''
`` Very likely he has lost it or sold it , the shabby little miscreant ; however , I 'll risk it .
And now I must make my preparations . ''
The king did not ask what they were ; as a rule , they were simple .
But , being in the shop of the optician that day , standing with his back to the door , he heard Dick come in and order a pair of rose-coloured spectacles , with which he was at once provided .
The people of Pantouflia were accustomed to wear them , saying that they improved the complexions of ladies whom they met , and added cheerfulness to things in general .
`` Just plain rose-coloured glass , Herr Spex , '' said Dick , `` I 'm not short - sighted . ''
`` The boy is beginning to show some sense , '' said the king to himself , knowing the nature and the difficulties of the expedition .
Ricardo did not disguise his intention of taking with him a Dandie Dinmont terrier , named Pepper , and the king , who understood the motive of this precaution , silently approved .
`` The lad has come to some purpose and forethought , '' the king said , and he gladly advanced a considerable sum for the purchase of crocodiles ' eggs , which can rarely be got quite fresh .
When Jaqueline had made the crocodiles ' eggs , with millet-seed and sugar-candy , into a cake for the Dwarf 's lions , Ricardo announced that his preparations were complete .
Not to be the mere slave of custom , he made this expedition on horseback , and the only magical thing he took with him was the Cap of Darkness -LRB- the one which would not work , but he did not know that -RRB- , and this he put in his pocket for future use .
With plenty of egg sandwiches and marmalade sandwiches , and cold minced-collop sandwiches , he pricked forth into the wilderness , making for the country inhabited by the Yellow Dwarf .
The princess was glad he was riding , for she privately accompanied him in the disguise of a wasp ; and a wasp , of course , could not have kept up with him in his Seven-league Boots .
`` Hang that wops ! ''
said Prince Ricardo several times , buffeting it with his pocket-handkerchief when it buzzed in his ear and round his horse 's head .
-LCB- `` Hang that wops ! ''
said Prince Ricardo : p129.jpg -RCB- Meanwhile , King Prigio had taken his precautions , which were perfectly simple .
When he thought Ricardo was getting near the place , the king put on his Wishing Cap , sat down before the magic crystal ball , and kept his eye on the proceedings , being ready to wish the right thing to help Ricardo at the right moment .
He left the window wide open , smoked his cigar , and seemed the pattern of a good and wise father watching the conduct of a promising son .
The prince rode and rode , sometimes taking up Pepper on his saddle ; passing through forests , sleeping at lonely inns , fording rivers , till one day he saw that the air was becoming Yellow .
He knew that this showed the neighbourhood of Jaunia , or Daunia , the country of the Yellow Dwarf .
He therefore drew bridle , placed his rose-coloured spectacles on his nose and put spurs to his horse , for the yellow light of Jaunia makes people melancholy and cowardly .
As he pricked on , his horse stumbled and nearly came on its nose .
The prince noticed that a steel chain had been drawn across the road .
`` What caitiff has dared ! ''
he exclaimed , when his hat was knocked off by a well-aimed orange from a neighbouring orange-tree , and a vulgar voice squeaked : `` Hi , Blinkers ! ''
There was the Yellow Dwarf , an odious little figure , sitting sucking an orange in the tree , swinging his wooden shoes , and grinning all over his wrinkled face .
`` Well , young Blinkers ! ''
said the Dwarf , `` what are you doing on my grounds ?
You 're a prince , by your look .
Yah !
down with kings !
I 'm a man of the people ! ''
`` You 're a dwarf of the worst description , that 's what you are , '' said Ricardo ; `` and let me catch you , and I 'll flog the life out of you with my riding-whip ! ''
The very face of the Dwarf , even seen through rose-coloured spectacles , made him nearly ill .
`` Yes , when you can catch me , '' said the Dwarf ; `` but that 's not to-day , nor yet to-morrow .
What are you doing here ?
Are you an ambassador , maybe come to propose a match for me ?
I 'm not proud , I 'll hear you .
They say there 's a rather well-looking wench in your parts , the Princess Jaqueline -- '' `` Mention that lady 's name , you villain , '' cried Dick , `` and I 'll cut down your orange-tree ! ''
and he wished he had brought the Sword of Sharpness , for you can not prod down a tree with the point of a rapier .
`` Fancy her yourself ? ''
said the Dwarf , showing his yellow teeth with a detestable grin ; while Ricardo turned quite white with anger , and not knowing how to deal with this insufferable little monster .
`` I 'm a widower , I am , '' said the Dwarf , `` though I 'm out of mourning , '' for he wore a dirty clay-coloured Yellow jacket .
`` My illustrious consort , the Princess Frutilla , did not behave very nice , and I had to avenge my honour ; in fact , I 'm open to any offers , however humble .
Going at an alarming sacrifice !
Come to my box '' -LRB- and he pointed to a filthy clay cottage , all surrounded by thistles , nettles , and black boggy water -RRB- , `` and I 'll talk over your proposals . ''
`` Hold your impudent tongue ! ''
said Dick .
`` The Princess Frutilla was an injured saint ; and as for the lady whom I shall not name in your polluting presence , I am her knight , and I defy you to deadly combat ! ''
We may imagine how glad the princess was when -LRB- disguised as a wasp -RRB- she heard Dick say he was her knight ; not that , in fact , he had thought of it before .
`` Oh !
you 're for a fight , are you ? ''
sneered the Dwarf .
`` I might tell you to hit one of your own weight , but I 'm not afraid of six of you .
Yah !
mammy 's brat !
Look here , young Blinkers , I do n't want to hurt you .
Just turn old Dobbin 's head , and trot back to your mammy , Queen Rosalind , at Pantouflia .
Does she know you 're out ? ''
`` I 'll be into you , pretty quick , '' said Ricardo .
`` But why do I bandy words with a miserable peasant ? ''
`` And do n't get much the best of them either , '' said the Dwarf , provokingly .
`` But I 'll fight , if you will have it . ''
The prince leaped from his horse , leaving Pepper on the saddle-bow .
No sooner had he touched the ground than the Dwarf shouted : `` Hi !
to him , Billy !
to him , Daniel !
at him , good lions , at him ! ''
and , with an awful roar , two lions rushed from a neighbouring potato-patch and made for Ricardo .
These were not ordinary lions , history avers , each having two heads , each being eight feet high , with four rows of teeth ; their skins as hard as nails , and bright red , like morocco .
-LCB- 135 -RCB- The prince did not lose his presence of mind ; hastily he threw the cake of crocodiles ' eggs , millet-seed , and sugar-candy to the lions .
This is a dainty which lions can never resist , and running greedily at it , with four tremendous snaps , they got hold of each other by their jaws , and their eight rows of teeth were locked fast in a grim and deadly struggle for existence !
The Dwarf took in the affair at a glance .
`` Cursed be he who taught you this ! ''
he cried , and then whistled in a shrill and vulgar manner on his very dirty fingers .
At his call rushed up an enormous Spanish cat , ready saddled and bridled , and darting fire from its eyes .
To leap on its back , while Ricardo sprang on his own steed , was to the active Dwarf the work of a moment .
Then clapping spurs to its sides -LRB- his spurs grew naturally on his bare heels , horrible to relate , like a cock 's spurs -RRB- and taking his cat by the head , the Dwarf forced it to leap on to Ricardo 's saddle .
The diamond sword which slew the king of the Golden Mines -- that invincible sword which hews iron like a reed -- was up and flashing in the air !
At this very moment King Prigio , seeing , in the magic globe , all that passed , and despairing of Ricardo 's life , was just about to wish the dwarf at Jericho , when through the open window , with a tremendous whirr , came a huge vulture , and knocked the king 's wishing cap off !
Wishing was now of no use .
This odious fowl was the Fairy of the Desert , the Dwarf 's trusted ally in every sort of mischief .
The vulture flew instantly out of the window ; and ah !
with what awful anxiety the king again turned his eyes on the crystal ball only a parent 's heart can know .
Should he see Ricardo bleeding at the feet of the abominable dwarf ?
The king scarcely dared to look ; never before had he known the nature of fear .
However , look he did , and saw the dwarf un-catted , and Pepper , the gallant Dandie Dinmont , with his teeth in the throat of the monstrous Spanish cat .
No sooner had he seen the cat leap on his master 's saddle-bow than Pepper , true to the instinct of his race , sprang at its neck , just behind the head -- the usual place , -- and , with an awful and despairing mew , the cat -LRB- Peter was its name -RRB- gave up its life .
The dwarf was on his feet in a moment , waving the diamond sword , which lighted up the whole scene , and yelling taunts .
Pepper was flying at his heels , and , with great agility , was keeping out of the way of the invincible blade .
`` Ah ! ''
screamed the Dwarf as Pepper got him by the ankle .
`` Call off your dog , you coward , and come down off your horse , and fight fair ! ''
At this moment , bleeding yellow blood , dusty , mad with pain , the dwarf was a sight to strike terror into the boldest .
Dick sprang from his saddle , but so terrific was the appearance of his adversary , and so dazzling was the sheen of the diamond sword , that he put his hand in his pocket , drew out , as he supposed , the sham Cap of Darkness , and placed it on his head .
`` Yah !
who 's your hatter ? ''
screamed the infuriated dwarf . ''
I see you ! ''
and he disengaged , feinted in carte , and made a lunge in seconde at Dick which no mortal blade could have parried .
The prince -LRB- thanks to his excellent training -RRB- just succeeded in stepping aside , but the dwarf recovered with astonishing quickness .
`` Coward , lache , poltroon , runaway ! ''
he hissed through his clenched teeth , and was about to make a thrust in tierce which must infallibly have been fatal , when the Princess Jaqueline , in her shape as a wasp , stung him fiercely on the wrist .
With an oath so awful that we dare not set it down , the dwarf dropped the diamond sword , sucked his injured limb , and began hopping about with pain .
In a moment Prince Ricardo 's foot was on the blade of the diamond sword , which he passed thrice through the body of the Yellow Dwarf .
Squirming fearfully , the little monster expired , his last look a defiance , his latest word an insult : `` Yah !
Gig-lamps ! ''
Prince Ricardo wiped the diamond blade clean from its yellow stains .
-LCB- The fight with the Yellow Dwarf : p141.jpg -RCB- `` Princess Frutilla is avenged ! ''
he cried .
Then pensively looking at his fallen foe , `` Peace to his ashes , '' he said ; `` he died in harness ! ''
Turning at the word , he observed that the two lions were stiff and dead , locked in each other 's gory jaws !
At that moment King Prigio , looking in the crystal ball , gave a great sigh of relief .
`` All 's well that ends well , '' he said , lighting a fresh cigar , for he had allowed the other to go out in his excitement , `` but it was a fight !
I am not satisfied , '' his Majesty went on reflecting , `` with this plan of changing the magical articles .
The first time was of no great importance , and I could not know that the boy would start on an expedition without giving me warning .
But , in to-day 's affair he owes his safety entirely to himself and Pepper , '' for he had not seen the wasp .
`` The Fairy of the Desert quite baffled me : it was terrible .
I shall restore the right fairy things to-night .
As to the Fairy of the Desert , '' he said , forgetting that his Wishing Cap was on , `` I wish she were dead ! ''
A hollow groan and the sound of a heavy body falling interrupted the king .
He looked all about the room , but saw nothing .
He was alone !
`` She must have been in the room , invisible , '' said the king ; and , of course , she has died in that condition .
`` But I must find her body ! ''
The king groped about everywhere , like a blind man , and at last discovered the dead body of the wicked fairy lying on the sofa .
He could not see it , of course , but he felt it with his hands .
`` This is very awkward , '' he remarked .
`` I can not ring for the servants and make them take her away .
There is only one plan . ''
So he wished she were in her family pyramid , in the Egyptian desert , and in a second the sofa was unoccupied .
`` A very dangerous and revengeful enemy is now removed from Ricardo 's path in life , '' said his Majesty , and went to dress for dinner .
Meanwhile Ricardo was riding gaily home .
The yellow light of Jaunia had vanished , and pure blue sky broke overhead as soon as the dauntless Dwarf had drawn his latest breath .
The poor , trembling people of the country came out of their huts and accompanied Dick , cheering , and throwing roses which had been yellow roses , but blushed red as soon as the Dwarf expired .
They attended him to the frontiers of Pantouflia , singing his praises , which Ricardo had the new and inestimable pleasure of knowing to be deserved .
`` It was sharp work , '' he said to himself , `` but much more exciting and glorious than the usual business . ''
On his return Dick did not fail to mention the wasp , and again the king felt how great was his debt to Jaqueline .
But they did not think it well to trouble the good queen with the dangers Dick had encountered .
CHAPTER VIII .
The Giant who does not know when he has had Enough .
-LCB- 146 -RCB- -LCB- The enormous letter : p146.jpg -RCB- One morning the post brought a truly enormous letter for Dick .
It was as broad as a table-cloth , and the address was written in letters as long as a hoop-stick .
`` I seem to know that hand , '' said Ricardo ; `` but I thought the fingers which held the pen had long been cold in death . ''
He opened , with his sword , the enormous letter , which was couched in the following terms : `` The Giant as does not know when he has had enuf , presents his compliments to Prince Ricardo ; and I , having recovered from the effects of our little recent rally , will be happy to meet you in the old place for a return-match .
I not being handy with the pen , the Giant hopes you will excuse mistakes and bad writing . ''
Dick simply gazed with amazement .
`` If ever I thought an enemy was killed and done for , it was that Giant , '' said he .
`` Why , I made mere mince-collops of him ! ''
However , he could not refuse a challenge , not to speak of his duty to rid the world of so greedy and odious a tyrant .
Dick , therefore , took the usual things -LRB- which the king had secretly restored -RRB- , but first he tried them -- putting on the Cap of Darkness before the glass , in which he could not see himself .
On second thoughts , he considered it unfair to take the cap .
All the other articles were in working order .
Jaqueline on this occasion followed him in the disguise of a crow , flying overhead .
On reaching the cavern -- a huge tunnel in the rock -- where the Giant lived , Ricardo blew a blast on the horn which hung outside , and in obedience to a written notice , knocked also with a mace provided by the Giant for that purpose .
Presently he heard heavy footsteps sounding along the cavern , and the Giant came out .
He was above the common height for giants , and his whole face and body were seamed over with little red lines , crossing each other like tartan .
These were marks of encounters , in which he had been cut to bits and come together again ; for this was his peculiarity , which made him so dangerous .
If you cut off his head , he went on just as before , only without it ; and so about everything else .
By dint of magic , he could put his head on again , just as if it had been his hat , if you gave him time enough .
On the last occasion of their meeting , Ricardo had left him in a painfully scattered condition , and thought he was done for .
But now , except that a bird had flown away with the little finger of his left hand and one of his ears , the Giant was as comfortable as anyone could be in his situation .
`` Mornin ' sir , '' he said to Dick , touching his forehead with his hand .
`` Glad to see you looking so well .
No bad feeling , I hope , on either side ? ''
`` None on mine , certainly , '' said Ricardo , holding out his hand , which the Giant took and shook ; `` but Duty is Duty , and giants must go .
The modern world has no room for them . ''
`` That 's hearty , '' said the Giant ; `` I like a fellow of your kind .
Now , shall we toss for corners ? ''
`` All right ! ''
said Dick , calling `` Heads '' and winning .
He took the corner with the sun on his back and in the Giant 's face .
To it they went , the Giant aiming a blow with his club that would have felled an elephant .
Dick dodged , and cut off the Giant 's feet at the ankles .
`` First blood for the prince ! ''
said the Giant , coming up smiling .
`` Half - minute time ! ''
He occupied the half-minute in placing the feet neatly beside each other , as if they had been a pair of boots .
Round II .
-- The Giant sparring for wind , Ricardo cuts him in two at the waist .
The Giant folded his legs up neatly , like a pair of trousers , and laid them down on a rock .
He had now some difficulty in getting rapidly over the ground , and stood mainly on the defensive , and on his waist .
Round III .
-- Dick bisects the Giant .
Both sides now attack him on either hand , and the feet kick him severely .
`` No kicking ! ''
said Dick .
`` Nonsense ; all fair in war ! ''
said the Giant .
But do not let us pursue this sanguinary encounter in all its horrible details .
Let us also remember -- otherwise the scene would be too painful for an elegant mind to contemplate with entertainment -- that the Giant was in excellent training , and thought no more of a few wounds than you do of a crack on the leg from a cricket-ball .
He well deserved the title given him by the Fancy , of `` The Giant who does not Know when he has had Enough . ''
* * * * * The contest was over ; Dick was resting on a rock .
The lists were strewn with interesting but imperfect fragments of the Giant , when a set of double teeth of enormous size flew up out of the ground and caught Ricardo by the throat !
In vain he strove to separate the teeth , when the crow , stooping from the heavens , became the Princess Jaqueline , and changed Dick into a wren -- a tiny bird , so small that he easily flew out of the jaws of the Giant and winged his way to a tree , whence he watched the scene .
But the poor Princess Jaqueline !
To perform the feat of changing Dick into a bird she had , of course , according to all the laws of magic , to resume her own natural form !
There she stood , a beautiful , trembling maiden , her hands crossed on her bosom , entirely at the mercy of the Giant !
No sooner had Dick escaped than the monster began to collect himself ; and before Jaqueline could muster strength to run away or summon to her aid the lessons of the Fairy Paribanou , the Giant who never Knew when he had Enough was himself again .
A boy might have climbed up a tree -LRB- for giants are no tree-climbers , any more than the grizzly bear -RRB- , but Jaqueline could not climb .
She merely stood , pale and trembling .
She had saved Dick , but at an enormous sacrifice , for the sword and the Seven - league Boots were lying on the trampled grass .
He had not brought the Cap of Darkness , and , in the shape of a wren , of course he could not carry away the other articles .
Dick was rescued , that was all , and the Princess Jaqueline had sacrificed herself to her love for him .
The Giant picked himself up and pulled himself together , as we said , and then approached Jaqueline in a very civil way , for a person of his breeding , head in hand .
`` Let me introduce myself , '' he said , and mentioned his name and titles .
`` May I ask what you are doing here , and how you came ? ''
-LCB- `` Let me introduce myself , '' he said : p154.jpg -RCB- Poor Jaqueline threw herself at his feet , and murmured a short and not very intelligible account of herself .
`` I do n't understand , '' said the Giant , replacing his head on his shoulders .
`` What to do with you , I 'm sure I do n't know . '
Please do n't eat me , ' did you say ?
Why , what do you take me for ?
I 'm not in that line at all ; low , I call it ! ''
Jaqueline was somewhat comforted at these words , dropped out of the Giant 's lips from a considerable height .
`` But they call you ` The Giant who does not Know when he has had Enough , ' '' said Jaqueline .
`` And proud of the title : not enough of fighting .
Of punishment I am a glutton , or so my friends are pleased to say .
A brace of oxen , a drove of sheep or two , are enough for me , '' the Giant went on complacently , but forgetting to mention that the sheep and the oxen were the property of other people .
`` Where am I to put you till your friends come and pay your ransom ? ''
the Giant asked again , and stared at Jaqueline in a perplexed way .
`` I ca n't take you home with me , that is out of the question .
I have a little woman of my own , and she 's not very fond of other ladies ; especially , she would like to poison them that have good looks . ''
Now Jaqueline saw that the Giant , big as he was , courageous too , was afraid of his wife !
`` I 'll tell you what I 'll do ; I 'll hand you over to a neighbour of mine , who is a bachelor . ''
`` A bachelor giant ; would that be quite proper ? ''
said Jaqueline , trying to humour him .
`` He 's not a giant , bless you ; he 's a queer fellow , it is not easy to say what he is .
He 's the Earthquaker , him as shakes the earth now and then , and brings the houses about people 's ears . ''
Jaqueline fairly screamed at hearing this awful news .
`` Hush !
be quiet , do ! ''
said the Giant .
`` You 'll bring out my little woman , and she is not easy to satisfy with explanations when she finds me conversing with a lady unbeknown to her .
The Earthquaker wo n't do you any harm ; it 's only for safe keeping I 'll put you with him .
Why , he do n't waken , not once in fifty years .
He 's quite the dormouse .
Turns on his bed now and then , and things upstairs get upset , more or less ; but , as a rule , a child could play with him .
Come on ! ''
Then , taking Jaqueline up on one hand , on which she sat as if on a chair , he crossed a few ranges of mountains in as many strides .
In front was one tall blue hill , with a flattened peak , and as they drew near the princess felt a curious kind of wind coming round her and round her .
You have heard of whirlpools in water ; well , this was just like a whirlpool of air .
Even the Giant himself could hardly keep his legs against it ; then he tossed Jaqueline up , and the airy whirlpool seized her and carried her , as if on a tide of water , always round and round in narrowing circles , till she was sucked down into the hollow hill .
Even as she went , she seemed to remember the hill , as if she had dreamed about it , and the shape and colour of the country .
But presently she sank softly on to a couch , in a beautifully-lighted rocky hall .
All around her the floor was of white and red marble , but on one side it seemed to end in black nothing .
Jaqueline , after a few moments , recovered her senses fully , and changing herself into an eagle , tried to fly up and out .
But as soon as she was in the funnel , the whirlpool of air always sucking down and down , was too strong for her wings .
She was a prisoner in this great gleaming hall , ending in black nothingness .
So she resumed her usual form , and walking to the edge of the darkness , found that it was not empty air , but something black , soft , and strong -- something living .
It had no form or shape , or none that she could make out ; but it pulsed with a heart .
Jaqueline placed her foot on this curious thing , when a voice came , like thunder heard through a feather-bed : `` Not near time to get up yet ! ''
and then there was a snore , and the great hall rocked like a ship at sea .
It was the Earthquaker !
The habits of this monstrous animal are very little known , as , of course , he never comes above ground , or at least very seldom , when he makes tracks like a dry river-bed across country .
We are certain that there are Earthquakers , otherwise how can we account for earthquakes ?
But how to tackle an Earthquaker , how to get at him , and what to do with him when you have got at him , are questions which might puzzle even King Prigio .
It was not easy to have the better of an enchantress like Jaqueline and a prince like Ricardo .
In no ordinary circumstances could they have been baffled and defeated ; but now it must be admitted that they were in a very trying and alarming situation , especially the princess .
The worst of it was , that as Jaqueline sat and thought and thought , she began to remember that she was back in her own country .
The hills were those she used to see from her father 's palace windows when she was a child .
And she remembered with horror that once a year her people used to send a beautiful girl to the Earthquaker , by way of keeping him quiet , as you shall hear presently .
And now she heard light footsteps and a sound of weeping , and lo !
a great troop of pretty girls passed , sweeping in and out of the halls in a kind of procession , and looking unhappy and lost .
Jaqueline ran to them .
`` Where am I ?
who are you ? ''
she cried , in the language of her own country , which came back to her on a sudden .
`` We are nurses of the Earthquaker , '' they said .
`` Our duty is to sing him asleep , and every year he must have a new song ; and every year a new maiden must be sent down from earth , with a new sleepy song she has learned from the priests of Manoa , the City of the Sun .
Are you the new singer ? ''
`` No , I 'm not , '' said Jaqueline .
`` I do n't know the priests of Manoa ; I do n't know any new sleepy song .
I only want to find the way out . ''
`` There is no way , or we should have found it , '' said one of the maidens ; `` and , if you are the wrong girl , by the day after to-morrow they must send the right one , otherwise the Earthquaker will waken , and shake the world , and destroy Manoa , the City of the Sun . ''
Then they all wept softly in the stillness .
`` Can we get anything to eat here ? ''
asked poor Jaqueline , at last .
She was beginning to be very hungry , and however alarmed she might be , she felt that dinner would not be unwelcome .
The tallest of the maidens clapped her hands , and immediately a long table was spread by unseen sprites with meringues and cold chicken , and several sorts of delicious ices .
We shall desert Jaqueline , who was rather less alarmed when she found that she was not to be starved , at all events , and return to Prince Ricardo , whom we left fluttering about as a little golden-crested wren .
He followed the Giant and Jaqueline into the whirlpool of air as far as he dared , and when he saw her vanish down the cone of the hill , he flew straight back to Pantouflia .
CHAPTER IX .
Prigio has an Idea .
-LCB- Ricardo and Semiramis : p165.jpg -RCB- A weary and way-worn little bird was Prince Ricardo when he fluttered into the royal study window , in the palace of Pantouflia .
The king was out at a council meeting ; knowing that Ricardo had the right things , all in good order , he was not in the least anxious about him .
The king was out , but Semiramis was in -- Semiramis , the great grey cat , sitting on a big book on the top of the library steps .
Now Semiramis was very fond of birds , and no sooner did Ricardo enter and flutter on to a table than Semiramis gathered herself together and made one fell spring at him .
She just caught his tail feather .
In all his adventures the prince had never been in greater danger .
He escaped , but no more , and went flying round the ceiling , looking for a safe place .
Finally he perched on a chandelier that hung from the roof .
Here he was safe ; and so weary was he , that he put his head under his wing and fell fast asleep .
He was awakened by the return of the king , who threw himself on a sofa and exclaimed : `` Oh , that Prime Minister !
his dulness is as heavy as lead ; much heavier , in fact ! ''
Then his Majesty lit a cigar and took up a volume ; he certainly was a sad bookworm .
Dick now began to fly about the room , brushing the king 's face and trying to attract his notice .
`` Poor little thing ! ''
said his Majesty .
And Dick alighted , and nestled in his breast .
On seeing this , Semiramis began to growl , as cats do when they are angry , and slowly approached his Majesty .
`` Get out , Semiramis ! ''
said the king ; and lifting her by the neck , he put her out of the room and shut the door , at which she remained scratching and mewing .
Dick now crept out of the royal waistcoat , flew to the king 's ear , twittered , pointed out of the window with one claw , and , lying down on his back , pretended to be dead .
Then he got up again , twittered afresh , pointed to the Wishing Cap , and , finally , convinced the king that this was no common fowl .
`` An enchanted prince or princess , '' said Prigio , `` such as I have often read of .
Who can it be ?
Not Jaqueline ; she could change herself back in a moment .
By the way , where is Jaqueline ? ''
He rang the bell , and asked the servant to look for the princess .
Semiramis tried to come in , but was caught and shut up downstairs .
After doing this , the man replied that her Royal Highness had not been in the palace all day .
The king rushed to the crystal ball , looked all the world over ; but no princess !
He became very nervous , and at that moment Dick lighted on the crystal ball , and put his claw on the very hill where Jaqueline had disappeared .
Then he cocked his little eye at the king .
`` Nay , she is somewhere in the unknown centre of South America , '' said his Majesty ; `` somewhere behind Mount Roraima , where nobody has ever been .
I must look into this . ''
Then he put on the Wishing Cap , and wished that the bird would assume his natural shape if he was under enchantment , as there seemed too good reason to believe .
Instantly Dick stood before him .
-LCB- Instantly Dick stood before him : p170.jpg -RCB- `` Ricardo ! ''
cried the king in horror ; `` and in this disguise !
Where have you been ?
What have you done with Jaqueline ?
Where are the Seven-league Boots ?
Where is the Sword of Sharpness ?
Speak !
Get up ! ''
for Dick was kneeling and weeping bitterly at the royal feet .
`` All lost ! ''
said Dick .
`` Poor Jaqueline !
she was the best girl , and the prettiest , and the kindest .
And the Earthquaker 's got her , and the Giant 's got the other things , '' Dick ended , crying bitterly .
`` Calm yourself , Ricardo , '' said his Majesty , very pale , but calm and determined .
`` Here , take a glass of port , and explain how all this happened . ''
Dick drank the wine , and then he told his miserable story .
`` You may well sob !
Why did n't you use the Cap of Darkness ?
Mere conceit !
But there is no use in crying over spilt milk .
The thing is , to rescue Jaqueline .
And what are we to say to your mother ? ''
`` That 's the worst of it all , '' said Dick .
`` Mother will break her heart . ''
`` I must see her at once , '' said the king , `` and break it to her . ''
This was a terrible task ; but the queen had such just confidence in her Prigio that she soon dried her tears , remarking that Heaven would not desert Jaqueline , and that the king would find a way out of the trouble .
His Majesty retired to his study , put his head in his hands , and thought and thought .
`` The thing is , of course , '' he said , `` to destroy the Earthquaker before he wakens ; but how ?
What can kill such a monster ?
Prodding him with the sword would only stir him up and make him more vicious .
And I know of no other beast we can set against him , as I did with the Fire-beast and the Ice-beast , when I was young .
Oh , for an idea ! ''
Then his mind , somehow , went back to the Council and the ponderous stupidity of the Prime Minister .
`` Heavier than lead , '' said the king .
`` By George !
I have a plan .
If I could get to the place where they keep the Stupidity , I could carry away enough of it to flatten out the Earthquaker . ''
Then he remembered how , in an old Italian poem , he had read about all the strange lumber-room of odd things which is kept in the moon .
That is the advantage of reading : Knowledge is Power ; and you mostly get knowledge that is really worth having out of good old books which people do not usually read .
`` If the Stupidity is kept in stock , up in the moon , and comes from there , falling naturally down on the earth in small quantities , I might obtain enough for my purpose , '' thought King Prigio .
`` But -- how to get to the moon ?
There are difficulties about that . ''
But difficulties only sharpened the ingenuity of this admirable king .
`` The other fellow had a Flying Horse , '' said he .
By `` the other fellow '' King Prigio meant an Italian knight , Astolfo , who , in old times , visited the moon , and there found and brought back the common sense of his friend , Orlando , as you may read in the poem of Ariosto .
`` Now , '' reasoned King Prigio , `` if there is a Flying Horse at all , he is in the stables of the King of Delhi .
I must look into this . ''
Taking the magic spy-glass , the king surveyed the world from China to Peru , and , sure enough , there was the famous Flying Horse in the king 's stable at Delhi .
Hastily the king thrust his feet into the Shoes of Swiftness -- so hastily , indeed , that , as the poet says , he `` madly crammed a left-hand foot into a right-hand shoe . ''
But this , many people think , is a sign of good luck ; so he put the shoes on the proper feet , and in a few minutes was in the presence of the Great Mogul .
The monarch received him with some surprise , but with stately kindness , and listened to Prigio while he explained what he wanted .
`` I am only too happy to assist so adventurous a prince , '' remarked the Great Mogul .
`` This is like old times !
Every horse in my stable is at your service , but , as you say , only the Flying Horse is of any use to you in this expedition . ''
He clapped his hands , the Grand Vizier appeared , and the king gave orders to have the Flying Horse saddled at once .
He then presented King Prigio with a large diamond , and came down into the courtyard to see him mount .
`` He 's very fresh , '' said the groom who held the bridle ; `` has not been out of the stable for three hundred years ! ''
Prigio sprang into the saddle among the salaams of the dusky multitude , and all the ladies of the seraglio waved their scented handkerchiefs out of the windows .
The king , as he had been instructed , turned a knob of gold in the saddle of the Flying Horse , then kissed his hand to the ladies , and , giving the steed his head , cried , in excellent Persian : `` To the moon ! ''
Up flew the horse with an easy action , and the king 's head nearly swam with the swiftness of the flight .
Soon the earth below him was no bigger than a top , spinning on its own axis -LRB- see Geography books for this -RRB- , and , as night fell , earth was only a great red moon .
-LCB- King Prigio on the Flying Horse : p178.jpg -RCB- Through the dark rode King Prigio , into the silver dawn of the moon .
All now became clear and silvery ; the coasts of the moon came into sight , with white seas breaking on them ; and at last the king reached the silver walls , and the gate of opal .
Before the gate stood two beautiful ladies .
One was fair , with yellow locks , the colour of the harvest moon .
She had a crown of a golden snake and white water-lilies , and her dress now shone white , now red , now golden ; and in her hand was the golden pitcher that sheds the dew , and a golden wand .
The other lady was as dark as night -- dark eyes , dark hair ; her crown was of poppies .
She held the ebony Wand of Sleep .
Her dress was of the deepest blue , sown with stars .
The king knew that they were the maidens of the bright and the dark side of the moon -- of the side you see , and of the side that no one has ever seen , except King Prigio .
He stopped the Flying Horse by turning the other knob in the saddle , alighted , and bowed very low to each of the ladies .
`` Daring mortal !
what make you here ? ''
they asked .
And then the king told them about Jaqueline and the Earthquaker , and how he needed a great weight of Stupidity to flatten him out with .
The ladies heard him in silence , and then they said : `` Follow us , '' and they flew lightly beside the Flying Horse till they had crossed all the bright side of the moon , above the silver palaces and silver seas , and reached the summit of the Mountains of the Moon which separate the bright from the dark side .
`` Here I may go no further , '' said the bright lady ; `` and beyond , as you see , all is darkness and heavy sleep . ''
Then she touched Prigio with her golden wand with twisted serpents , and he became luminous , light raying out from him ; and the dark lady , too , shone like silver in the night : and on they flew , over black rocks and black rivers , till they reached a huge mountain , like a mountain of coal , many thousand feet high , for its head was lost in the blackness of darkness .
The dark Moon-Lady struck the rock with her ebony wand , and said , `` Open ! ''
and the cliffs opened like a door , and they were within the mountain .
`` Here , '' said the dark lady , `` is the storehouse of all the Stupidity ; hence it descends in showers like Stardust on the earth whenever this mountain , which is a volcano , is in eruption .
Only a little of the Stupidity reaches the earth , and that only in invisible dust ; yet you know how weighty it is , even in that form . ''
`` Indeed , madam , '' said the king , `` no one knows it better than I do . ''
`` Then make your choice of the best sort of Stupidity for your purpose , '' said the dark lady .
And in the light which flowed from their bodies King Prigio looked round at the various kinds of Solid Stupidity .
There it all lay in masses -- the Stupidity of bad Sermons , of ignorant reviewers , of bad poems , of bad speeches , of dreary novels , of foolish statesmen , of ignorant mobs , of fine ladies , of idle , naughty boys and girls ; and the king examined them all , and all were very , very heavy .
But when he came to the Stupidity of the Learned -- of dull , blind writers on Shakspeare , and Homer , and the Bible -- then King Prigio saw that he had found the sort he wanted , and that a very little of it would go a long way .
He never could have got it on the saddle of the Flying Horse if the dark lady had not touched it with her ebony wand , and made it light to carry till it was wanted for his purpose .
When he needed it for use , he was to utter a certain spell , which she taught him , and then the lump would recover its natural weight .
So he easily put a great block on his saddle-bow , and he and the dark lady flew back till they reached the crest of the Mountains of the Moon .
There she touched him with her ebony wand , and the silver light which the bright lady had shed on him died from his face and his body , and he became like other men .
`` You see your way ? ''
said the dark lady , pointing to the bright moon of earth , shining far off in the heavens .
Then he knelt down and thanked her , and she murmured strange words of blessing which he did not understand ; but her face was grave and kind , and he thought of Queen Rosalind , his wife .
Then he jumped on the Flying Horse , galloped down and down , till he reached his palace gate ; called for Ricardo , set him behind him on the saddle , and away they rode , above land and wide seas , till they saw the crest of the hollow hill , where Jaqueline was with the Earthquaker .
Beyond it they marked the glittering spires and towers of Manoa , the City of the Sun ; and `` Thither , '' said King Prigio , who had been explaining how matters stood , to Ricardo , `` we must ride , for I believe they stand in great need of our assistance . ''
`` Had we not better go to Jaqueline first , sir ? ''
said Ricardo .
`` No , '' said the king ; `` I think mine is the best plan .
Manoa , whose golden spires and pinnacles are shining below us , is the City of the Sun , which Sir Walter Raleigh and the Spaniards could never find , so that men have doubted of its existence .
We are needed there , to judge by that angry crowd in the marketplace .
How they howl ! ''
CHAPTER X .
The End .
-LCB- Man with rock : p186.jpg -RCB- It was on a strange sight that the king and Ricardo looked down from the Flying Horse .
Beneath them lay the City of Manoa , filling with its golden battlements and temples a hollow of the mountains .
Here were palaces all carved over with faces of men and beasts , and with twisted patterns of serpents .
The city walls were built of huge square stones , and among the groves towered pyramids , on which the people did service to their gods .
From every temple top came the roar of beaten drums , great drums of serpentskin .
But , in the centre of the chief square of the town , was gathered a wild crowd of men in shining copper armour and helmets of gold and glittering dresses of feathers .
Among them ran about priests with hideous masks , crying them on to besiege and break down the royal palace .
From the battlements of the palace the king 's guardsmen were firing arrows and throwing spears .
The mob shot arrows back , some of them tipped with lighted straw , to burn the palace down .
But , in the very centre of the square , was a clear space of ground , on which fell the shadow of a tall column of red stone , all carved with serpents and faces of gods .
Beside it stood a figure horrible to see : a man clothed in serpent skins , whose face was the grinning face of a skull ; but the skull was shining black and red in patches , and a long white beard flowed from beneath it .
This man , mounted on a kind of altar of red stone , waved his hand and yelled , and seemed to point to the shadow of the column which fell across the square .
The people were so furious and so eager that they did not , at first , notice King Prigio as he slowly descended .
But at last the eyes within the skull looked up and saw him , and then the man gave a great cry , rent his glittering dress of serpentskin , and held up his hands .
Then all the multitude looked up , and seeing the Flying Horse , let their weapons fall ; and the man of the skull tore it from his face , and knelt before King Prigio , with his head in the dust .
`` Thou hast come , oh , Pachacamac , as is foretold in the prophecy of the Cord of the Venerable Knots !
Thou hast come , but behold the shadow of the stone !
Thou art too late , oh Lord of the Earth and the Sea ! ''
Then he pointed to the shadow , which , naturally , was growing shorter , as the sun drew near mid-day .
He spoke in the language of the ancient Incas of Peru , which of course Prigio knew very well ; and he also knew that Pachacamac was the god of that people .
`` I have come , '' Prigio said , with presence of mind , `` as it has been prophesied of old . ''
`` Riding on a beast that flies , '' said the old priest , `` even as the oracle declared .
Glory to Pachacamac , even though we die to-day ! ''
`` In what can I help my people ? ''
said Prigio .
`` Thou knowest ; why should we instruct thee ?
Thou knowest that on midsummer-day , every year , before the shadow shrinks back to the base of the huaca -LCB- 190 -RCB- of Manoa , we must offer a maiden to lull the Earthquaker with a new song .
Lo , now the shadow shrinks to the foot of the huaca , and the maid is not offered !
For the lot fell on the daughter of thy servant the Inca , and he refuses to give her up .
One daughter of his , he says , has been sacrificed to the sacred birds , the Cunturs : the birds were found slain on the hill-top , no man knows how ; but the maiden vanished . ''
`` Why , it must have been Jaqueline .
I killed the birds , '' said Ricardo , in Pantouflian .
`` Silence , not a word ! ''
said the king , sternly .
`` And what makes you bear arms against the Inca ? ''
he asked the old man .
`` We would slay him and her , '' answered the priest ; `` for , when the shadow shrinks to the foot of the stone , the sun will shine straight down into the hollow hill of the Earthquaker , and he will waken and destroy Manoa and the Temples of the Sun . ''
`` Then wherefore would you slay them , when you must all perish ? ''
`` The people , oh Pachacamac , would have revenge before they die . ''
`` Oh , folly of men ! ''
said the king , solemnly ; then he cried : `` Lead me to the Inca ; this day you shall not perish .
Is it not predicted in the Cord of the Venerable Knots that I shall slay this monster ? ''
`` Hasten , oh Pachacamac , for the shadow shortens ! ''
said the priest .
`` Lead me to the Inca , '' answered Prigio .
At this the people arose with a great shout , for they , too , had been kneeling ; and , sending a flag of truce before King Prigio , the priest led him into the palace .
The ground was strewn with bodies of the slain , and through them Prigio rode slowly into the courtyard , where the Inca was sitting in the dust , weeping and throwing ashes on his long hair and his golden raiment .
The king bade the priest remain without the palace gates ; then dismounted , and , advancing to the Inca , raised him and embraced him .
`` I come , a king to a king , '' he said .
`` My cousin , take courage ; your sorrows are ended .
If I do not slay the Earthquaker , sacrifice me to your gods . ''
`` The Prophecy is fulfilled , '' said the Inca , and wept for joy .
`` Yet thou must hasten , for it draws near to noon . ''
Then Prigio went up to the golden battlements , and saying no word , waved his hand .
In a moment the square was empty , for the people rushed to give thanks in the temples .
`` Wait my coming , my cousin , '' said Prigio to the Inca ; `` I shall bring you back the daughter that was lost , when I have slain your enemy . ''
The Inca would have knelt at his feet ; but the king raised him , and bade him prepare such a feast as had never been seen in Manoa .
`` The lost are found to-day , '' he said ; `` be you ready to welcome them . ''
Then , mounting the Flying Horse , with Dick beside him , he rose towards the peak of the hill where the Earthquaker had his home .
Already the ground was beginning to tremble ; the Earthquaker was stirring in his sleep , for the maiden of the new song had not been sent to him , and the year ended at noon , and then he would rise and ruin Manoa .
The sun was approaching mid-day , and Prigio put spurs to the Flying Horse .
Ten minutes more , and the sun would look straight down the crater of the hollow hill , and the Earthquaker would arouse himself when the light and the heat fell on his body .
Already the light of the sun shone slanting half-way down the hollow cone as the whirlpool of air caught the Flying Horse , and drew him swiftly down and down to the shadowy halls .
There knelt and wept the nurses of the Earthquaker on the marble floor ; but Jaqueline stood a little apart , very pale , but not weeping .
Ricardo had leaped off before the horse touched the ground , and rushed to Jaqueline , and embraced her in his arms ; and , oh !
how glad she was to see him , so that she quite forgot her danger and laughed for joy .
`` Oh !
you have come , you have come ; I knew you would come ! ''
she cried .
Then King Prigio advanced , the mighty weight in his hand , to the verge of the dreadful gulf of the Earthquaker .
The dim walls grew radiant ; a long slant arm of yellow light touched the black body of the Earthquaker , and a thrill went through him , and shook the world , so that , far away , the bells rang in Pantouflia .
A moment more , and he would waken in his strength ; and once awake , he would shatter the city walls and ruin Manoa .
Even now a great mass of rock fell from the roof deep down in the secret caves , and broke into flying fragments , and all the echoes roared and rang .
King Prigio stood with the mighty mass poised in his hands .
`` Die ! ''
he cried ; and he uttered the words of power , the magic spell that the dark Moon Lady had taught him .
Then all its invincible natural weight came into the mass which the king held , and down it shot full on the body of the Earthquaker ; and where that had been was nothing but a vast abyss , silent , empty , and blank , and bottomless .
Far , far below , thousands of miles below , in the very centre of the earth , lay the dead Earthquaker , crushed flat as a sheet of paper , and the sun of midsummer-day shone straight down on the dreadful chasm , and could not waken him any more for ever .
The king drew a long breath .
`` Stupidity has saved the world , '' he said ; and , with only strength to draw back one step from the abyss , he fell down , hiding his face in his hands .
But Jaqueline 's arms were round his neck , and the maidens brought him water from an ice-cold spring ; and soon King Prigio was himself again , and ready for anything .
But afterwards he used to say that the moment when the Earthquaker stirred was the most dreadful in his life .
Now , in Manoa , where all the firm foundations of the city had trembled once , when the sun just touched the Earthquaker , the people , seeing that the shadow of the sacred column had crept to its foot , and yet Manoa stood firm again , and the Temple of the Sun was not overthrown , raised such a cry that it echoed even through the halls within the hollow hill .
Who shall describe the joy of the maidens , and how often Jaqueline and Ricardo kissed each other ?
`` You have saved me ! ''
she cried to the king , throwing her arms round him again .
`` You have saved Manoa ! ''
`` And you have saved the Hope of Pantouflia , not once or twice , '' said his Majesty , grandly .
And he told Dick how much he had owed to Jaqueline , in the fight with the Yellow Dwarf , and the fight with the Giant , for he did not think it necessary to mention the affair at Rome .
Then Dick kissed Jaqueline again , and all the maidens kissed each other , and they quite cried for gladness .
`` But we keep his Majesty the Inca waiting , '' said Prigio .
`` Punctuality is the courtesy of kings .
You ladies will excuse me , I am sure , if I remove first from the dungeon her whom we call the Princess Jaqueline .
The Inca , her father , has a claim on us to this preference . ''
Then placing Jaqueline on the saddle , and leaving Dick to comfort the other young ladies , who were still rather nervous , the king flew off to Manoa , for the wind , of course , died with the death of the Earthquaker .
I can not tell you the delight of all Manoa , and of the Inca , when they saw the Flying Horse returning , and recognised their long-lost princess , who rushed into the arms of her father .
They beat the serpent drums , for they had no bells , on the tops of the temples .
They went quite mad with delight : enemies kissed in the streets ; and all the parents , without exception , allowed all the young people who happened to be in love to be married that very day .
Then Prigio brought back all the maidens , one after the other , and Dick last ; and he fell at the Inca 's feet , and requested leave to marry Jaqueline .
But , before that could be done , King Prigio , mounted on the palace balcony , made a long but very lucid speech to the assembled people .
He began by explaining that he was not their God , Pachacamac , but king of a powerful country of which they had never heard before , as they lived very much withdrawn in an unknown region of the world .
Then he pointed out , in the most considerate manner , that their religion was not all he could wish , otherwise they would never sacrifice young ladies to wild birds and Earthquakers .
He next sketched out the merits of his own creed , that of the Lutheran Church ; and the Inca straightway observed that he proposed to establish it in Manoa at once .
Some objection was raised by the old priest in the skull mask ; but when the Inca promised to make him an archbishop , and to continue all his revenues , the priest admitted that he was perfectly satisfied ; and the general public cheered and waved their hats with emotion .
It was arranged that the Inca , with his other daughters , should visit Pantouflia immediately , both because he could not bear to leave Jaqueline , and also because there were a few points on which he felt that he still needed information .
The Government was left in the hands of the archbishop , who began at once by burning his skull mask -LRB- you may see one like it in the British Museum , in the Mexican room -RRB- , and by letting loose all the birds and beasts which the Manoans used to worship .
So all the young people were married in the Golden Temple of the Sun , and all the Earthquaker 's nurses who were under thirty were wedded to the young men who had been fond of them before they were sent into the hollow hill .
These young men had never cared for any one else .
Everybody wore bridal favours , all the unengaged young ladies acted as bridesmaids , and such a throwing of rice and old shoes has very seldom been witnessed .
As for the happy royal pair , with their fathers , and the other princess -LRB- who did not happen to be engaged -RRB- , back they flew to Pantouflia .
And there was Queen Rosalind waiting at the palace gates , and crying and laughing with pleasure when she heard that the wish of her heart was fulfilled , and Jaqueline was to be her daughter .
`` And , as for the Earthquaker , '' said her Majesty , `` I never was really anxious in the least , for I knew no beast in the world was a match for you , my dear . ''
So , just to make everything orderly and correct , Ricardo and Jaqueline were married over again , in the Cathedral of Pantouflia .
The marriage presents came in afterwards , of course , and among them , what do you think ?
Why , the Seven-League Boots and the Sword of Sharpness , with a very polite note of extraordinary size : `` The Giant who does not Know when he has had Enough presents his hearty congratulations to the royal pair , and begs to lay at their feet the Seven-league Boots -LRB- they not fitting me -RRB- and the Sword which Prince Ricardo left in the Giant 's keeping recently .
The Giant hopes no bad blood ; and I am , `` Yours very faithfully , `` THE G. , & c. `` P.S. -- His little woman sends her congratulations . ''
So you see the Giant was not such a bad sort of fellow after all , and Prince Ricardo always admitted that he never met a foe more gallant and good-humoured .
With such a clever wife , Ricardo easily passed all his examinations ; and his little son , Prince Prigio -LRB- named after his august grandfather -RRB- , never had to cry , `` Mamma , mamma , father 's plucked again . ''
So they lived happily in a happy country , occasionally visiting Manoa ; and as they possessed the magical Water o Life from the Fountain of Lions , I do not believe that any of them ever died at all , but that Prigio is still King of Pantouflia .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Blue_Fairy_Book.txt.out
THE BRONZE RING Once upon a time in a certain country there lived a king whose palace was surrounded by a spacious garden .
But , though the gardeners were many and the soil was good , this garden yielded neither flowers nor fruits , not even grass or shady trees .
The King was in despair about it , when a wise old man said to him : `` Your gardeners do not understand their business : but what can you expect of men whose fathers were cobblers and carpenters ?
How should they have learned to cultivate your garden ? ''
`` You are quite right , '' cried the King .
`` Therefore , '' continued the old man , `` you should send for a gardener whose father and grandfather have been gardeners before him , and very soon your garden will be full of green grass and gay flowers , and you will enjoy its delicious fruit . ''
So the King sent messengers to every town , village , and hamlet in his dominions , to look for a gardener whose forefathers had been gardeners also , and after forty days one was found .
`` Come with us and be gardener to the King , '' they said to him .
`` How can I go to the King , '' said the gardener , `` a poor wretch like me ? ''
`` That is of no consequence , '' they answered .
`` Here are new clothes for you and your family . ''
`` But I owe money to several people . ''
`` We will pay your debts , '' they said .
So the gardener allowed himself to be persuaded , and went away with the messengers , taking his wife and his son with him ; and the King , delighted to have found a real gardener , entrusted him with the care of his garden .
The man found no difficulty in making the royal garden produce flowers and fruit , and at the end of a year the park was not like the same place , and the King showered gifts upon his new servant .
The gardener , as you have heard already , had a son , who was a very handsome young man , with most agreeable manners , and every day he carried the best fruit of the garden to the King , and all the prettiest flowers to his daughter .
Now this princess was wonderfully pretty and was just sixteen years old , and the King was beginning to think it was time that she should be married .
`` My dear child , '' said he , `` you are of an age to take a husband , therefore I am thinking of marrying you to the son of my prime minister .
`` Father , '' replied the Princess , `` I will never marry the son of the minister . ''
`` Why not ? ''
asked the King .
`` Because I love the gardener 's son , '' answered the Princess .
On hearing this the King was at first very angry , and then he wept and sighed , and declared that such a husband was not worthy of his daughter ; but the young Princess was not to be turned from her resolution to marry the gardener 's son .
Then the King consulted his ministers .
`` This is what you must do , '' they said .
`` To get rid of the gardener you must send both suitors to a very distant country , and the one who returns first shall marry your daughter . ''
The King followed this advice , and the minister 's son was presented with a splendid horse and a purse full of gold pieces , while the gardener 's son had only an old lame horse and a purse full of copper money , and every one thought he would never come back from his journey .
The day before they started the Princess met her lover and said to him : `` Be brave , and remember always that I love you .
Take this purse full of jewels and make the best use you can of them for love of me , and come back quickly and demand my hand . ''
The two suitors left the town together , but the minister 's son went off at a gallop on his good horse , and very soon was lost to sight behind the most distant hills .
He traveled on for some days , and presently reached a fountain beside which an old woman all in rags sat upon a stone .
`` Good-day to you , young traveler , '' said she .
But the minister 's son made no reply .
`` Have pity upon me , traveler , '' she said again .
`` I am dying of hunger , as you see , and three days have I been here and no one has given me anything . ''
`` Let me alone , old witch , '' cried the young man ; `` I can do nothing for you , '' and so saying he went on his way .
That same evening the gardener 's son rode up to the fountain upon his lame gray horse .
`` Good-day to you , young traveler , '' said the beggar-woman .
`` Good-day , good woman , '' answered he .
`` Young traveler , have pity upon me . ''
`` Take my purse , good woman , '' said he , `` and mount behind me , for your legs ca n't be very strong . ''
The old woman did n't wait to be asked twice , but mounted behind him , and in this style they reached the chief city of a powerful kingdom .
The minister 's son was lodged in a grand inn , the gardener 's son and the old woman dismounted at the inn for beggars .
The next day the gardener 's son heard a great noise in the street , and the King 's heralds passed , blowing all kinds of instruments , and crying : `` The King , our master , is old and infirm .
He will give a great reward to whoever will cure him and give him back the strength of his youth . ''
Then the old beggar-woman said to her benefactor : `` This is what you must do to obtain the reward which the King promises .
Go out of the town by the south gate , and there you will find three little dogs of different colors ; the first will be white , the second black , the third red .
You must kill them and then burn them separately , and gather up the ashes .
Put the ashes of each dog into a bag of its own color , then go before the door of the palace and cry out , ' A celebrated physician has come from Janina in Albania .
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . '
The King 's physicians will say , This is an impostor , and not a learned man , ' and they will make all sorts of difficulties , but you will overcome them all at last , and will present yourself before the sick King .
You must then demand as much wood as three mules can carry , and a great cauldron , and must shut yourself up in a room with the Sultan , and when the cauldron boils you must throw him into it , and there leave him until his flesh is completely separated from his bones .
Then arrange the bones in their proper places , and throw over them the ashes out of the three bags .
The King will come back to life , and will be just as he was when he was twenty years old .
For your reward you must demand the bronze ring which has the power to grant you everything you desire .
Go , my son , and do not forget any of my instructions . ''
The young man followed the old beggar-woman 's directions .
On going out of the town he found the white , red , and black dogs , and killed and burnt them , gathering the ashes in three bags .
Then he ran to the palace and cried : `` A celebrated physician has just come from Janina in Albania .
He alone can cure the King and give him back the strength of his youth . ''
The King 's physicians at first laughed at the unknown wayfarer , but the Sultan ordered that the stranger should be admitted .
They brought the cauldron and the loads of wood , and very soon the King was boiling away .
Toward mid-day the gardener 's son arranged the bones in their places , and he had hardly scattered the ashes over them before the old King revived , to find himself once more young and hearty .
`` How can I reward you , my benefactor ? ''
he cried .
`` Will you take half my treasures ? ''
`` No , '' said the gardener 's son .
`` My daughter 's hand ? '' ''
No . ''
`` Take half my kingdom . ''
`` No .
Give me only the bronze ring which can instantly grant me anything I wish for . ''
`` Alas ! ''
said the King , `` I set great store by that marvelous ring ; nevertheless , you shall have it . ''
And he gave it to him .
The gardener 's son went back to say good-by to the old beggar-woman ; then he said to the bronze ring : `` Prepare a splendid ship in which I may continue my journey .
Let the hull be of fine gold , the masts of silver , the sails of brocade ; let the crew consist of twelve young men of noble appearance , dressed like kings .
St. Nicholas will be at the helm .
As to the cargo , let it be diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and carbuncles . ''
And immediately a ship appeared upon the sea which resembled in every particular the description given by the gardener 's son , and , stepping on board , he continued his journey .
Presently he arrived at a great town and established himself in a wonderful palace .
After several days he met his rival , the minister 's son , who had spent all his money and was reduced to the disagreeable employment of a carrier of dust and rubbish .
The gardener 's son said to him : `` What is your name , what is your family , and from what country do you come ? ''
`` I am the son of the prime minister of a great nation , and yet see what a degrading occupation I am reduced to . ''
`` Listen to me ; though I do n't know anything more about you , I am willing to help you .
I will give you a ship to take you back to your own country upon one condition . ''
`` Whatever it may be , I accept it willingly . ''
`` Follow me to my palace . ''
The minister 's son followed the rich stranger , whom he had not recognized .
When they reached the palace the gardener 's son made a sign to his slaves , who completely undressed the new-comer .
`` Make this ring red-hot , '' commanded the master , `` and mark the man with it upon his back . ''
The slaves obeyed him .
`` Now , young man , '' said the rich stranger , `` I am going to give you a vessel which will take you back to your own country . ''
And , going out , he took the bronze ring and said : `` Bronze ring , obey thy master .
Prepare me a ship of which the half-rotten timbers shall be painted black , let the sails be in rags , and the sailors infirm and sickly .
One shall have lost a leg , another an arm , the third shall be a hunchback , another lame or club-footed or blind , and most of them shall be ugly and covered with scars .
Go , and let my orders be executed . ''
The minister 's son embarked in this old vessel , and thanks to favorable winds , at length reached his own country .
In spite of the pitiable condition in which he returned they received him joyfully .
`` I am the first to come back , '' said he to the King ; now fulfil your promise , and give me the princess in marriage .
So they at once began to prepare for the wedding festivities .
As to the poor princess , she was sorrowful and angry enough about it .
The next morning , at daybreak , a wonderful ship with every sail set came to anchor before the town .
The King happened at that moment to be at the palace window .
`` What strange ship is this , '' he cried , `` that has a golden hull , silver masts , and silken sails , and who are the young men like princes who man it ?
And do I not see St. Nicholas at the helm ?
Go at once and invite the captain of the ship to come to the palace . ''
His servants obeyed him , and very soon in came an enchantingly handsome young prince , dressed in rich silk , ornamented with pearls and diamonds .
`` Young man , '' said the King , `` you are welcome , whoever you may be .
Do me the favor to be my guest as long as you remain in my capital . ''
`` Many thanks , sire , '' replied the captain , `` I accept your offer . ''
`` My daughter is about to be married , '' said the King ; `` will you give her away ? ''
`` I shall be charmed , sire . ''
Soon after came the Princess and her betrothed .
`` Why , how is this ? ''
cried the young captain ; `` would you marry this charming princess to such a man as that ? ''
`` But he is my prime minister 's son ! ''
`` What does that matter ?
I can not give your daughter away .
The man she is betrothed to is one of my servants . ''
`` Your servant ? ''
`` Without doubt .
I met him in a distant town reduced to carrying away dust and rubbish from the houses .
I had pity on him and engaged him as one of my servants . ''
`` It is impossible ! ''
cried the King .
`` Do you wish me to prove what I say ?
This young man returned in a vessel which I fitted out for him , an unseaworthy ship with a black battered hull , and the sailors were infirm and crippled . ''
`` It is quite true , '' said the King .
`` It is false , '' cried the minister 's son .
`` I do not know this man ! ''
`` Sire , '' said the young captain , `` order your daughter 's betrothed to be stripped , and see if the mark of my ring is not branded upon his back . ''
The King was about to give this order , when the minister 's son , to save himself from such an indignity , admitted that the story was true .
`` And now , sire , '' said the young captain , `` do you not recognize me ? ''
`` I recognize you , '' said the Princess ; `` you are the gardener 's son whom I have always loved , and it is you I wish to marry . ''
`` Young man , you shall be my son-in-law , '' cried the King .
`` The marriage festivities are already begun , so you shall marry my daughter this very day . ''
And so that very day the gardener 's son married the beautiful Princess .
Several months passed .
The young couple were as happy as the day was long , and the King was more and more pleased with himself for having secured such a son-in-law .
But , presently , the captain of the golden ship found it necessary to take a long voyage , and after embracing his wife tenderly he embarked .
Now in the outskirts of the capital there lived an old man , who had spent his life in studying black arts -- alchemy , astrology , magic , and enchantment .
This man found out that the gardener 's son had only succeeded in marrying the Princess by the help of the genii who obeyed the bronze ring .
`` I will have that ring , '' said he to himself .
So he went down to the sea-shore and caught some little red fishes .
Really , they were quite wonderfully pretty .
Then he came back , and , passing before the Princess 's window , he began to cry out : `` Who wants some pretty little red fishes ? ''
The Princess heard him , and sent out one of her slaves , who said to the old peddler : `` What will you take for your fish ? ''
`` A bronze ring . ''
`` A bronze ring , old simpleton !
And where shall I find one ? ''
`` Under the cushion in the Princess 's room . ''
The slave went back to her mistress .
`` The old madman will take neither gold nor silver , '' said she .
`` What does he want then ? ''
`` A bronze ring that is hidden under a cushion . ''
`` Find the ring and give it to him , '' said the Princess .
And at last the slave found the bronze ring , which the captain of the golden ship had accidentally left behind and carried it to the man , who made off with it instantly .
Hardly had he reached his own house when , taking the ring , he said , `` Bronze ring , obey thy master .
I desire that the golden ship shall turn to black wood , and the crew to hideous negroes ; that St. Nicholas shall leave the helm and that the only cargo shall be black cats . ''
And the genii of the bronze ring obeyed him .
Finding himself upon the sea in this miserable condition , the young captain understood that some one must have stolen the bronze ring from him , and he lamented his misfortune loudly ; but that did him no good .
`` Alas ! ''
he said to himself , `` whoever has taken my ring has probably taken my dear wife also .
What good will it do me to go back to my own country ? ''
And he sailed about from island to island , and from shore to shore , believing that wherever he went everybody was laughing at him , and very soon his poverty was so great that he and his crew and the poor black cats had nothing to eat but herbs and roots .
After wandering about a long time he reached an island inhabited by mice .
The captain landed upon the shore and began to explore the country .
There were mice everywhere , and nothing but mice .
Some of the black cats had followed him , and , not having been fed for several days , they were fearfully hungry , and made terrible havoc among the mice .
Then the queen of the mice held a council .
`` These cats will eat every one of us , '' she said , `` if the captain of the ship does not shut the ferocious animals up .
Let us send a deputation to him of the bravest among us . ''
Several mice offered themselves for this mission and set out to find the young captain .
`` Captain , '' said they , `` go away quickly from our island , or we shall perish , every mouse of us . ''
`` Willingly , '' replied the young captain , `` upon one condition .
That is that you shall first bring me back a bronze ring which some clever magician has stolen from me .
If you do not do this I will land all my cats upon your island , and you shall be exterminated . ''
The mice withdrew in great dismay .
`` What is to be done ? ''
said the Queen .
`` How can we find this bronze ring ? ''
She held a new council , calling in mice from every quarter of the globe , but nobody knew where the bronze ring was .
Suddenly three mice arrived from a very distant country .
One was blind , the second lame , and the third had her ears cropped .
`` Ho , ho , ho ! ''
said the new-comers .
`` We come from a far distant country . ''
`` Do you know where the bronze ring is which the genii obey ? ''
`` Ho , ho , ho !
we know ; an old sorcerer has taken possession of it , and now he keeps it in his pocket by day and in his mouth by night . ''
`` Go and take it from him , and come back as soon as possible . ''
So the three mice made themselves a boat and set sail for the magician 's country .
When they reached the capital they landed and ran to the palace , leaving only the blind mouse on the shore to take care of the boat .
Then they waited till it was night .
The wicked old man lay down in bed and put the bronze ring into his mouth , and very soon he was asleep .
`` Now , what shall we do ? ''
said the two little animals to each other .
The mouse with the cropped ears found a lamp full of oil and a bottle full of pepper .
So she dipped her tail first in the oil and then in the pepper , and held it to the sorcerer 's nose .
`` Atisha !
atisha ! ''
sneezed the old man , but he did not wake , and the shock made the bronze ring jump out of his mouth .
Quick as thought the lame mouse snatched up the precious talisman and carried it off to the boat .
Imagine the despair of the magician when he awoke and the bronze ring was nowhere to be found !
But by that time our three mice had set sail with their prize .
A favoring breeze was carrying them toward the island where the queen of the mice was awaiting them .
Naturally they began to talk about the bronze ring .
`` Which of us deserves the most credit ? ''
they cried all at once .
`` I do , '' said the blind mouse , `` for without my watchfulness our boat would have drifted away to the open sea . ''
`` No , indeed , '' cried the mouse with the cropped ears ; `` the credit is mine .
Did I not cause the ring to jump out of the man 's mouth ? ''
`` No , it is mine , '' cried the lame one , `` for I ran off with the ring . ''
And from high words they soon came to blows , and , alas !
when the quarrel was fiercest the bronze ring fell into the sea .
`` How are we to face our queen , '' said the three mice `` when by our folly we have lost the talisman and condemned our people to be utterly exterminated ?
We can not go back to our country ; let us land on this desert island and there end our miserable lives . ''
No sooner said than done .
The boat reached the island , and the mice landed .
The blind mouse was speedily deserted by her two sisters , who went off to hunt flies , but as she wandered sadly along the shore she found a dead fish , and was eating it , when she felt something very hard .
At her cries the other two mice ran up .
`` It is the bronze ring !
It is the talisman ! ''
they cried joyfully , and , getting into their boat again , they soon reached the mouse island .
It was time they did , for the captain was just going to land his cargo of cats , when a deputation of mice brought him the precious bronze ring .
`` Bronze ring , '' commanded the young man , `` obey thy master .
Let my ship appear as it was before . ''
Immediately the genii of the ring set to work , and the old black vessel became once more the wonderful golden ship with sails of brocade ; the handsome sailors ran to the silver masts and the silken ropes , and very soon they set sail for the capital .
Ah !
how merrily the sailors sang as they flew over the glassy sea !
At last the port was reached .
The captain landed and ran to the palace , where he found the wicked old man asleep .
The Princess clasped her husband in a long embrace .
The magician tried to escape , but he was seized and bound with strong cords .
The next day the sorcerer , tied to the tail of a savage mule loaded with nuts , was broken into as many pieces as there were nuts upon the mule 's back .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure .
Carnoy et Nicolaides .
Paris : Maisonneuve , 1889 .
PRINCE HYACINTH AND THE DEAR LITTLE PRINCESS Once upon a time there lived a king who was deeply in love with a princess , but she could not marry anyone , because she was under an enchantment .
So the King set out to seek a fairy , and asked what he could do to win the Princess 's love .
The Fairy said to him : `` You know that the Princess has a great cat which she is very fond of .
Whoever is clever enough to tread on that cat 's tail is the man she is destined to marry . ''
The King said to himself that this would not be very difficult , and he left the Fairy , determined to grind the cat 's tail to powder rather than not tread on it at all .
You may imagine that it was not long before he went to see the Princess , and puss , as usual , marched in before him , arching his back .
The King took a long step , and quite thought he had the tail under his foot , but the cat turned round so sharply that he only trod on air .
And so it went on for eight days , till the King began to think that this fatal tail must be full of quicksilver -- it was never still for a moment .
At last , however , he was lucky enough to come upon puss fast asleep and with his tail conveniently spread out .
So the King , without losing a moment , set his foot upon it heavily .
With one terrific yell the cat sprang up and instantly changed into a tall man , who , fixing his angry eyes upon the King , said : `` You shall marry the Princess because you have been able to break the enchantment , but I will have my revenge .
You shall have a son , who will never be happy until he finds out that his nose is too long , and if you ever tell anyone what I have just said to you , you shall vanish away instantly , and no one shall ever see you or hear of you again . ''
Though the King was horribly afraid of the enchanter , he could not help laughing at this threat .
`` If my son has such a long nose as that , '' he said to himself , `` he must always see it or feel it ; at least , if he is not blind or without hands . ''
But , as the enchanter had vanished , he did not waste any more time in thinking , but went to seek the Princess , who very soon consented to marry him .
But after all , they had not been married very long when the King died , and the Queen had nothing left to care for but her little son , who was called Hyacinth .
The little Prince had large blue eyes , the prettiest eyes in the world , and a sweet little mouth , but , alas !
his nose was so enormous that it covered half his face .
The Queen was inconsolable when she saw this great nose , but her ladies assured her that it was not really as large as it looked ; that it was a Roman nose , and you had only to open any history to see that every hero has a large nose .
The Queen , who was devoted to her baby , was pleased with what they told her , and when she looked at Hyacinth again , his nose certainly did not seem to her quite so large .
The Prince was brought up with great care ; and , as soon as he could speak , they told him all sorts of dreadful stories about people who had short noses .
No one was allowed to come near him whose nose did not more or less resemble his own , and the courtiers , to get into favor with the Queen , took to pulling their babies ' noses several times every day to make them grow long .
But , do what they would , they were nothing by comparison with the Prince 's .
When he grew sensible he learned history ; and whenever any great prince or beautiful princess was spoken of , his teachers took care to tell him that they had long noses .
His room was hung with pictures , all of people with very large noses ; and the Prince grew up so convinced that a long nose was a great beauty , that he would not on any account have had his own a single inch shorter !
When his twentieth birthday was passed the Queen thought it was time that he should be married , so she commanded that the portraits of several princesses should be brought for him to see , and among the others was a picture of the Dear Little Princess !
Now , she was the daughter of a great king , and would some day possess several kingdoms herself ; but Prince Hyacinth had not a thought to spare for anything of that sort , he was so much struck with her beauty .
The Princess , whom he thought quite charming , had , however , a little saucy nose , which , in her face , was the prettiest thing possible , but it was a cause of great embarrassment to the courtiers , who had got into such a habit of laughing at little noses that they sometimes found themselves laughing at hers before they had time to think ; but this did not do at all before the Prince , who quite failed to see the joke , and actually banished two of his courtiers who had dared to mention disrespectfully the Dear Little Princess 's tiny nose !
The others , taking warning from this , learned to think twice before they spoke , and one even went so far as to tell the Prince that , though it was quite true that no man could be worth anything unless he had a long nose , still , a woman 's beauty was a different thing ; and he knew a learned man who understood Greek and had read in some old manuscripts that the beautiful Cleopatra herself had a `` tip-tilted '' nose !
The Prince made him a splendid present as a reward for this good news , and at once sent ambassadors to ask the Dear Little Princess in marriage .
The King , her father , gave his consent ; and Prince Hyacinth , who , in his anxiety to see the Princess , had gone three leagues to meet her was just advancing to kiss her hand when , to the horror of all who stood by , the enchanter appeared as suddenly as a flash of lightning , and , snatching up the Dear Little Princess , whirled her away out of their sight !
The Prince was left quite unconsolable , and declared that nothing should induce him to go back to his kingdom until he had found her again , and refusing to allow any of his courtiers to follow him , he mounted his horse and rode sadly away , letting the animal choose his own path .
So it happened that he came presently to a great plain , across which he rode all day long without seeing a single house , and horse and rider were terribly hungry , when , as the night fell , the Prince caught sight of a light , which seemed to shine from a cavern .
He rode up to it , and saw a little old woman , who appeared to be at least a hundred years old .
She put on her spectacles to look at Prince Hyacinth , but it was quite a long time before she could fix them securely because her nose was so very short .
The Prince and the Fairy -LRB- for that was who she was -RRB- had no sooner looked at one another than they went into fits of laughter , and cried at the same moment , `` Oh , what a funny nose ! ''
`` Not so funny as your own , '' said Prince Hyacinth to the Fairy ; `` but , madam , I beg you to leave the consideration of our noses -- such as they are -- and to be good enough to give me something to eat , for I am starving , and so is my poor horse . ''
`` With all my heart , '' said the Fairy .
`` Though your nose is so ridiculous you are , nevertheless , the son of my best friend .
I loved your father as if he had been my brother .
Now he had a very handsome nose ! ''
`` And pray what does mine lack ? ''
said the Prince .
`` Oh !
it does n't lack anything , '' replied the Fairy .
`` On the contrary quite , there is only too much of it .
But never mind , one may be a very worthy man though his nose is too long .
I was telling you that I was your father 's friend ; he often came to see me in the old times , and you must know that I was very pretty in those days ; at least , he used to say so .
I should like to tell you of a conversation we had the last time I ever saw him . ''
`` Indeed , '' said the Prince , `` when I have supped it will give me the greatest pleasure to hear it ; but consider , madam , I beg of you , that I have had nothing to eat to-day . ''
`` The poor boy is right , '' said the Fairy ; `` I was forgetting .
Come in , then , and I will give you some supper , and while you are eating I can tell you my story in a very few words -- for I do n't like endless tales myself .
Too long a tongue is worse than too long a nose , and I remember when I was young that I was so much admired for not being a great chatterer .
They used to tell the Queen , my mother , that it was so .
For though you see what I am now , I was the daughter of a great king .
My father -- '' `` Your father , I dare say , got something to eat when he was hungry ! ''
interrupted the Prince .
`` Oh !
certainly , '' answered the Fairy , `` and you also shall have supper directly .
I only just wanted to tell you -- '' `` But I really can not listen to anything until I have had something to eat , '' cried the Prince , who was getting quite angry ; but then , remembering that he had better be polite as he much needed the Fairy 's help , he added : `` I know that in the pleasure of listening to you I should quite forget my own hunger ; but my horse , who can not hear you , must really be fed ! ''
The Fairy was very much flattered by this compliment , and said , calling to her servants : `` You shall not wait another minute , you are so polite , and in spite of the enormous size of your nose you are really very agreeable . ''
`` Plague take the old lady !
How she does go on about my nose ! ''
said the Prince to himself .
`` One would almost think that mine had taken all the extra length that hers lacks !
If I were not so hungry I would soon have done with this chatterpie who thinks she talks very little !
How stupid people are not to see their own faults !
That comes of being a princess : she has been spoiled by flatterers , who have made her believe that she is quite a moderate talker ! ''
Meanwhile the servants were putting the supper on the table , and the prince was much amused to hear the Fairy who asked them a thousand questions simply for the pleasure of hearing herself speak ; especially he noticed one maid who , no matter what was being said , always contrived to praise her mistress 's wisdom .
`` Well ! ''
he thought , as he ate his supper , `` I 'm very glad I came here .
This just shows me how sensible I have been in never listening to flatterers .
People of that sort praise us to our faces without shame , and hide our faults or change them into virtues .
For my part I never will be taken in by them .
I know my own defects , I hope . ''
Poor Prince Hyacinth !
He really believed what he said , and had n't an idea that the people who had praised his nose were laughing at him , just as the Fairy 's maid was laughing at her ; for the Prince had seen her laugh slyly when she could do so without the Fairy 's noticing her .
However , he said nothing , and presently , when his hunger began to be appeased , the Fairy said : `` My dear Prince , might I beg you to move a little more that way , for your nose casts such a shadow that I really can not see what I have on my plate .
Ah !
thanks .
Now let us speak of your father .
When I went to his Court he was only a little boy , but that is forty years ago , and I have been in this desolate place ever since .
Tell me what goes on nowadays ; are the ladies as fond of amusement as ever ?
In my time one saw them at parties , theatres , balls , and promenades every day .
Dear me !
what a long nose you have !
I can not get used to it ! ''
`` Really , madam , '' said the Prince , `` I wish you would leave off mentioning my nose .
It can not matter to you what it is like .
I am quite satisfied with it , and have no wish to have it shorter .
One must take what is given one . ''
`` Now you are angry with me , my poor Hyacinth , '' said the Fairy , `` and I assure you that I did n't mean to vex you ; on the contrary , I wished to do you a service .
However , though I really can not help your nose being a shock to me , I will try not to say anything about it .
I will even try to think that you have an ordinary nose .
To tell the truth , it would make three reasonable ones . ''
The Prince , who was no longer hungry , grew so impatient at the Fairy 's continual remarks about his nose that at last he threw himself upon his horse and rode hastily away .
But wherever he came in his journeyings he thought the people were mad , for they all talked of his nose , and yet he could not bring himself to admit that it was too long , he had been so used all his life to hear it called handsome .
The old Fairy , who wished to make him happy , at last hit upon a plan .
She shut the Dear Little Princess up in a palace of crystal , and put this palace down where the Prince would not fail to find it .
His joy at seeing the Princess again was extreme , and he set to work with all his might to try to break her prison ; but in spite of all his efforts he failed utterly .
In despair he thought at least that he would try to get near enough to speak to the Dear Little Princess , who , on her part , stretched out her hand that he might kiss it ; but turn which way he might , he never could raise it to his lips , for his long nose always prevented it .
For the first time he realized how long it really was , and exclaimed : `` Well , it must be admitted that my nose is too long ! ''
In an instant the crystal prison flew into a thousand splinters , and the old Fairy , taking the Dear Little Princess by the hand , said to the Prince : `` Now , say if you are not very much obliged to me .
Much good it was for me to talk to you about your nose !
You would never have found out how extraordinary it was if it had n't hindered you from doing what you wanted to .
You see how self-love keeps us from knowing our own defects of mind and body .
Our reason tries in vain to show them to us ; we refuse to see them till we find them in the way of our interests . ''
Prince Hyacinth , whose nose was now just like anyone 's else , did not fail to profit by the lesson he had received .
He married the Dear Little Princess , and they lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Le Prince Desir et la Princesse Mignonne .
Par Madame Leprince de Beaumont .
EAST OF THE SUN AND WEST OF THE MOON Once upon a time there was a poor husbandman who had many children and little to give them in the way either of food or clothing .
They were all pretty , but the prettiest of all was the youngest daughter , who was so beautiful that there were no bounds to her beauty .
So once -- it was late on a Thursday evening in autumn , and wild weather outside , terribly dark , and raining so heavily and blowing so hard that the walls of the cottage shook again -- they were all sitting together by the fireside , each of them busy with something or other , when suddenly some one rapped three times against the window-pane .
The man went out to see what could be the matter , and when he got out there stood a great big white bear .
`` Good-evening to you , '' said the White Bear .
`` Good-evening , '' said the man .
`` Will you give me your youngest daughter ? ''
said the White Bear ; `` if you will , you shall be as rich as you are now poor . ''
Truly the man would have had no objection to be rich , but he thought to himself : `` I must first ask my daughter about this , '' so he went in and told them that there was a great white bear outside who had faithfully promised to make them all rich if he might but have the youngest daughter .
She said no , and would not hear of it ; so the man went out again , and settled with the White Bear that he should come again next Thursday evening , and get her answer .
Then the man persuaded her , and talked so much to her about the wealth that they would have , and what a good thing it would be for herself , that at last she made up her mind to go , and washed and mended all her rags , made herself as smart as she could , and held herself in readiness to set out .
Little enough had she to take away with her .
Next Thursday evening the White Bear came to fetch her .
She seated herself on his back with her bundle , and thus they departed .
When they had gone a great part of the way , the White Bear said : `` Are you afraid ? ''
`` No , that I am not , '' said she .
`` Keep tight hold of my fur , and then there is no danger , '' said he .
And thus she rode far , far away , until they came to a great mountain .
Then the White Bear knocked on it , and a door opened , and they went into a castle where there were many brilliantly lighted rooms which shone with gold and silver , likewise a large hall in which there was a well-spread table , and it was so magnificent that it would be hard to make anyone understand how splendid it was .
The White Bear gave her a silver bell , and told her that when she needed anything she had but to ring this bell , and what she wanted would appear .
So after she had eaten , and night was drawing near , she grew sleepy after her journey , and thought she would like to go to bed .
She rang the bell , and scarcely had she touched it before she found herself in a chamber where a bed stood ready made for her , which was as pretty as anyone could wish to sleep in .
It had pillows of silk , and curtains of silk fringed with gold , and everything that was in the room was of gold or silver , but when she had lain down and put out the light a man came and lay down beside her , and behold it was the White Bear , who cast off the form of a beast during the night .
She never saw him , however , for he always came after she had put out her light , and went away before daylight appeared .
So all went well and happily for a time , but then she began to be very sad and sorrowful , for all day long she had to go about alone ; and she did so wish to go home to her father and mother and brothers and sisters .
Then the White Bear asked what it was that she wanted , and she told him that it was so dull there in the mountain , and that she had to go about all alone , and that in her parents ' house at home there were all her brothers and sisters , and it was because she could not go to them that she was so sorrowful .
`` There might be a cure for that , '' said the White Bear , `` if you would but promise me never to talk with your mother alone , but only when the others are there too ; for she will take hold of your hand , '' he said , `` and will want to lead you into a room to talk with you alone ; but that you must by no means do , or you will bring great misery on both of us . ''
So one Sunday the White Bear came and said that they could now set out to see her father and mother , and they journeyed thither , she sitting on his back , and they went a long , long way , and it took a long , long time ; but at last they came to a large white farmhouse , and her brothers and sisters were running about outside it , playing , and it was so pretty that it was a pleasure to look at it .
`` Your parents dwell here now , '' said the White Bear ; `` but do not forget what I said to you , or you will do much harm both to yourself and me . ''
`` No , indeed , '' said she , `` I shall never forget ; '' and as soon as she was at home the White Bear turned round and went back again .
There were such rejoicings when she went in to her parents that it seemed as if they would never come to an end .
Everyone thought that he could never be sufficiently grateful to her for all she had done for them all .
Now they had everything that they wanted , and everything was as good as it could be .
They all asked her how she was getting on where she was .
All was well with her too , she said ; and she had everything that she could want .
What other answers she gave I can not say , but I am pretty sure that they did not learn much from her .
But in the afternoon , after they had dined at midday , all happened just as the White Bear had said .
Her mother wanted to talk with her alone in her own chamber .
But she remembered what the White Bear had said , and would on no account go .
`` What we have to say can be said at any time , '' she answered .
But somehow or other her mother at last persuaded her , and she was forced to tell the whole story .
So she told how every night a man came and lay down beside her when the lights were all put out , and how she never saw him , because he always went away before it grew light in the morning , and how she continually went about in sadness , thinking how happy she would be if she could but see him , and how all day long she had to go about alone , and it was so dull and solitary .
`` Oh ! ''
cried the mother , in horror , `` you are very likely sleeping with a troll !
But I will teach you a way to see him .
You shall have a bit of one of my candles , which you can take away with you hidden in your breast .
Look at him with that when he is asleep , but take care not to let any tallow drop upon him . ''
So she took the candle , and hid it in her breast , and when evening drew near the White Bear came to fetch her away .
When they had gone some distance on their way , the White Bear asked her if everything had not happened just as he had foretold , and she could not but own that it had .
`` Then , if you have done what your mother wished , '' said he , `` you have brought great misery on both of us . ''
`` No , '' she said , `` I have not done anything at all . ''
So when she had reached home and had gone to bed it was just the same as it had been before , and a man came and lay down beside her , and late at night , when she could hear that he was sleeping , she got up and kindled a light , lit her candle , let her light shine on him , and saw him , and he was the handsomest prince that eyes had ever beheld , and she loved him so much that it seemed to her that she must die if she did not kiss him that very moment .
So she did kiss him ; but while she was doing it she let three drops of hot tallow fall upon his shirt , and he awoke .
`` What have you done now ? ''
said he ; `` you have brought misery on both of us .
If you had but held out for the space of one year I should have been free .
I have a step-mother who has bewitched me so that I am a white bear by day and a man by night ; but now all is at an end between you and me , and I must leave you , and go to her .
She lives in a castle which lies east of the sun and west of the moon , and there too is a princess with a nose which is three ells long , and she now is the one whom I must marry . ''
She wept and lamented , but all in vain , for go he must .
Then she asked him if she could not go with him .
But no , that could not be .
`` Can you tell me the way then , and I will seek you -- that I may surely be allowed to do ! ''
`` Yes , you may do that , '' said he ; `` but there is no way thither .
It lies east of the sun and west of the moon , and never would you find your way there . ''
When she awoke in the morning both the Prince and the castle were gone , and she was lying on a small green patch in the midst of a dark , thick wood .
By her side lay the self-same bundle of rags which she had brought with her from her own home .
So when she had rubbed the sleep out of her eyes , and wept till she was weary , she set out on her way , and thus she walked for many and many a long day , until at last she came to a great mountain .
Outside it an aged woman was sitting , playing with a golden apple .
The girl asked her if she knew the way to the Prince who lived with his stepmother in the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon , and who was to marry a princess with a nose which was three ells long .
`` How do you happen to know about him ? ''
inquired the old woman ; `` maybe you are she who ought to have had him . ''
`` Yes , indeed , I am , '' she said .
`` So it is you , then ? ''
said the old woman ; `` I know nothing about him but that he dwells in a castle which is east of the sun and west of the moon .
You will be a long time in getting to it , if ever you get to it at all ; but you shall have the loan of my horse , and then you can ride on it to an old woman who is a neighbor of mine : perhaps she can tell you about him .
When you have got there you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again ; but you may take the golden apple with you . ''
So the girl seated herself on the horse , and rode for a long , long way , and at last she came to the mountain , where an aged woman was sitting outside with a gold carding-comb .
The girl asked her if she knew the way to the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon ; but she said what the first old woman had said : `` I know nothing about it , but that it is east of the sun and west of the moon , and that you will be a long time in getting to it , if ever you get there at all ; but you shall have the loan of my horse to an old woman who lives the nearest to me : perhaps she may know where the castle is , and when you have got to her you may just strike the horse beneath the left ear and bid it go home again . ''
Then she gave her the gold carding-comb , for it might , perhaps , be of use to her , she said .
So the girl seated herself on the horse , and rode a wearisome long way onward again , and after a very long time she came to a great mountain , where an aged woman was sitting , spinning at a golden spinning-wheel .
Of this woman , too , she inquired if she knew the way to the Prince , and where to find the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon .
But it was only the same thing once again .
`` Maybe it was you who should have had the Prince , '' said the old woman .
`` Yes , indeed , I should have been the one , '' said the girl .
But this old crone knew the way no better than the others -- it was east of the sun and west of the moon , she knew that , `` and you will be a long time in getting to it , if ever you get to it at all , '' she said ; `` but you may have the loan of my horse , and I think you had better ride to the East Wind , and ask him : perhaps he may know where the castle is , and will blow you thither .
But when you have got to him you must just strike the horse beneath the left ear , and he will come home again . ''
And then she gave her the golden spinning-wheel , saying : `` Perhaps you may find that you have a use for it . ''
The girl had to ride for a great many days , and for a long and wearisome time , before she got there ; but at last she did arrive , and then she asked the East Wind if he could tell her the way to the Prince who dwelt east of the sun and west of the moon .
`` Well , '' said the East Wind , `` I have heard tell of the Prince , and of his castle , but I do not know the way to it , for I have never blown so far ; but , if you like , I will go with you to my brother the West Wind : he may know that , for he is much stronger than I am .
You may sit on my back , and then I can carry you there . ''
So she seated herself on his back , and they did go so swiftly !
When they got there , the East Wind went in and said that the girl whom he had brought was the one who ought to have had the Prince up at the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon , and that now she was traveling about to find him again , so he had come there with her , and would like to hear if the West Wind knew whereabout the castle was .
`` No , '' said the West Wind ; `` so far as that have I never blown ; but if you like I will go with you to the South Wind , for he is much stronger than either of us , and he has roamed far and wide , and perhaps he can tell you what you want to know .
You may seat yourself on my back , and then I will carry you to him . ''
.
So she did this , and journeyed to the South Wind , neither was she very long on the way .
When they had got there , the West Wind asked him if he could tell her the way to the castle that lay east of the sun and west of the moon , for she was the girl who ought to marry the Prince who lived there .
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
said the South Wind , `` is that she ?
Well , '' said he , `` I have wandered about a great deal in my time , and in all kinds of places , but I have never blown so far as that .
If you like , however , I will go with you to my brother , the North Wind ; he is the oldest and strongest of all of us , and if he does not know where it is no one in the whole world will be able to tell you .
You may sit upon my back , and then I will carry you there . ''
So she seated herself on his back , and off he went from his house in great haste , and they were not long on the way .
When they came near the North Wind 's dwelling , he was so wild and frantic that they felt cold gusts a long while before they got there .
`` What do you want ? ''
he roared out from afar , and they froze as they heard .
Said the South Wind : `` It is I , and this is she who should have had the Prince who lives in the castle which lies east of the sun and west of the moon .
And now she wishes to ask you if you have ever been there , and can tell her the way , for she would gladly find him again . ''
`` Yes , '' said the North Wind , `` I know where it is .
I once blew an aspen leaf there , but I was so tired that for many days afterward I was not able to blow at all .
However , if you really are anxious to go there , and are not afraid to go with me , I will take you on my back , and try if I can blow you there . ''
`` Get there I must , '' said she ; `` and if there is any way of going I will ; and I have no fear , no matter how fast you go . ''
`` Very well then , '' said the North Wind ; `` but you must sleep here to-night , for if we are ever to get there we must have the day before us . ''
The North Wind woke her betimes next morning , and puffed himself up , and made himself so big and so strong that it was frightful to see him , and away they went , high up through the air , as if they would not stop until they had reached the very end of the world .
Down below there was such a storm !
It blew down woods and houses , and when they were above the sea the ships were wrecked by hundreds .
And thus they tore on and on , and a long time went by , and then yet more time passed , and still they were above the sea , and the North Wind grew tired , and more tired , and at last so utterly weary that he was scarcely able to blow any longer , and he sank and sank , lower and lower , until at last he went so low that the waves dashed against the heels of the poor girl he was carrying .
`` Art thou afraid ? ''
said the North Wind .
`` I have no fear , '' said she ; and it was true .
But they were not very , very far from land , and there was just enough strength left in the North Wind to enable him to throw her on to the shore , immediately under the windows of a castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon ; but then he was so weary and worn out that he was forced to rest for several days before he could go to his own home again .
Next morning she sat down beneath the walls of the castle to play with the golden apple , and the first person she saw was the maiden with the long nose , who was to have the Prince .
`` How much do you want for that gold apple of yours , girl ? ''
said she , opening the window .
`` It ca n't be bought either for gold or money , '' answered the girl .
`` If it can not be bought either for gold or money , what will buy it ?
You may say what you please , '' said the Princess .
`` Well , if I may go to the Prince who is here , and be with him to-night , you shall have it , '' said the girl who had come with the North Wind .
`` You may do that , '' said the Princess , for she had made up her mind what she would do .
So the Princess got the golden apple , but when the girl went up to the Prince 's apartment that night he was asleep , for the Princess had so contrived it .
The poor girl called to him , and shook him , and between whiles she wept ; but she could not wake him .
In the morning , as soon as day dawned , in came the Princess with the long nose , and drove her out again .
In the daytime she sat down once more beneath the windows of the castle , and began to card with her golden carding-comb ; and then all happened as it had happened before .
The Princess asked her what she wanted for it , and she replied that it was not for sale , either for gold or money , but that if she could get leave to go to the Prince , and be with him during the night , she should have it .
But when she went up to the Prince 's room he was again asleep , and , let her call him , or shake him , or weep as she would , he still slept on , and she could not put any life in him .
When daylight came in the morning , the Princess with the long nose came too , and once more drove her away .
When day had quite come , the girl seated herself under the castle windows , to spin with her golden spinning-wheel , and the Princess with the long nose wanted to have that also .
So she opened the window , and asked what she would take for it .
The girl said what she had said on each of the former occasions -- that it was not for sale either for gold or for money , but if she could get leave to go to the Prince who lived there , and be with him during the night , she should have it .
`` Yes , '' said the Princess , `` I will gladly consent to that . ''
But in that place there were some Christian folk who had been carried off , and they had been sitting in the chamber which was next to that of the Prince , and had heard how a woman had been in there who had wept and called on him two nights running , and they told the Prince of this .
So that evening , when the Princess came once more with her sleeping-drink , he pretended to drink , but threw it away behind him , for he suspected that it was a sleeping-drink .
So , when the girl went into the Prince 's room this time he was awake , and she had to tell him how she had come there .
`` You have come just in time , '' said the Prince , `` for I should have been married to-morrow ; but I will not have the long-nosed Princess , and you alone can save me .
I will say that I want to see what my bride can do , and bid her wash the shirt which has the three drops of tallow on it .
This she will consent to do , for she does not know that it is you who let them fall on it ; but no one can wash them out but one born of Christian folk : it can not be done by one of a pack of trolls ; and then I will say that no one shall ever be my bride but the woman who can do this , and I know that you can . ''
There was great joy and gladness between them all that night , but the next day , when the wedding was to take place , the Prince said , `` I must see what my bride can do . ''
`` That you may do , '' said the stepmother .
`` I have a fine shirt which I want to wear as my wedding shirt , but three drops of tallow have got upon it which I want to have washed off , and I have vowed to marry no one but the woman who is able to do it .
If she can not do that , she is not worth having . ''
Well , that was a very small matter , they thought , and agreed to do it .
The Princess with the long nose began to wash as well as she could , but , the more she washed and rubbed , the larger the spots grew .
`` Ah !
you ca n't wash at all , '' said the old troll-hag , who was her mother .
`` Give it to me . ''
But she too had not had the shirt very long in her hands before it looked worse still , and , the more she washed it and rubbed it , the larger and blacker grew the spots .
So the other trolls had to come and wash , but , the more they did , the blacker and uglier grew the shirt , until at length it was as black as if it had been up the chimney .
`` Oh , '' cried the Prince , `` not one of you is good for anything at all !
There is a beggar-girl sitting outside the window , and I 'll be bound that she can wash better than any of you !
Come in , you girl there ! ''
he cried .
So she came in .
`` Can you wash this shirt clean ? ''
he cried .
`` Oh !
I do n't know , '' she said ; `` but I will try . ''
And no sooner had she taken the shirt and dipped it in the water than it was white as driven snow , and even whiter than that .
`` I will marry you , '' said the Prince .
Then the old troll-hag flew into such a rage that she burst , and the Princess with the long nose and all the little trolls must have burst too , for they have never been heard of since .
The Prince and his bride set free all the Christian folk who were imprisoned there , and took away with them all the gold and silver that they could carry , and moved far away from the castle which lay east of the sun and west of the moon .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE YELLOW DWARF Once upon a time there lived a queen who had been the mother of a great many children , and of them all only one daughter was left .
But then she was worth at least a thousand .
Her mother , who , since the death of the King , her father , had nothing in the world she cared for so much as this little Princess , was so terribly afraid of losing her that she quite spoiled her , and never tried to correct any of her faults .
The consequence was that this little person , who was as pretty as possible , and was one day to wear a crown , grew up so proud and so much in love with her own beauty that she despised everyone else in the world .
The Queen , her mother , by her caresses and flatteries , helped to make her believe that there was nothing too good for her .
She was dressed almost always in the prettiest frocks , as a fairy , or as a queen going out to hunt , and the ladies of the Court followed her dressed as forest fairies .
And to make her more vain than ever the Queen caused her portrait to be taken by the cleverest painters and sent it to several neighboring kings with whom she was very friendly .
When they saw this portrait they fell in love with the Princess -- every one of them , but upon each it had a different effect .
One fell ill , one went quite crazy , and a few of the luckiest set off to see her as soon as possible , but these poor princes became her slaves the moment they set eyes on her .
Never has there been a gayer Court .
Twenty delightful kings did everything they could think of to make themselves agreeable , and after having spent ever so much money in giving a single entertainment thought themselves very lucky if the Princess said `` That 's pretty . ''
All this admiration vastly pleased the Queen .
Not a day passed but she received seven or eight thousand sonnets , and as many elegies , madrigals , and songs , which were sent her by all the poets in the world .
All the prose and the poetry that was written just then was about Bellissima -- for that was the Princess 's name -- and all the bonfires that they had were made of these verses , which crackled and sparkled better than any other sort of wood .
Bellissima was already fifteen years old , and every one of the Princes wished to marry her , but not one dared to say so .
How could they when they knew that any of them might have cut off his head five or six times a day just to please her , and she would have thought it a mere trifle , so little did she care ?
You may imagine how hard-hearted her lovers thought her ; and the Queen , who wished to see her married , did not know how to persuade her to think of it seriously .
`` Bellissima , '' she said , `` I do wish you would not be so proud .
What makes you despise all these nice kings ?
I wish you to marry one of them , and you do not try to please me . ''
`` I am so happy , '' Bellissima answered : `` do leave me in peace , madam .
I do n't want to care for anyone . ''
`` But you would be very happy with any of these Princes , '' said the Queen , `` and I shall be very angry if you fall in love with anyone who is not worthy of you . ''
But the Princess thought so much of herself that she did not consider any one of her lovers clever or handsome enough for her ; and her mother , who was getting really angry at her determination not to be married , began to wish that she had not allowed her to have her own way so much .
At last , not knowing what else to do , she resolved to consult a certain witch who was called `` The Fairy of the Desert . ''
Now this was very difficult to do , as she was guarded by some terrible lions ; but happily the Queen had heard a long time before that whoever wanted to pass these lions safely must throw to them a cake made of millet flour , sugar-candy , and crocodile 's eggs .
This cake she prepared with her own hands , and putting it in a little basket , she set out to seek the Fairy .
But as she was not used to walking far , she soon felt very tired and sat down at the foot of a tree to rest , and presently fell fast asleep .
When she awoke she was dismayed to find her basket empty .
The cake was all gone !
and , to make matters worse , at that moment she heard the roaring of the great lions , who had found out that she was near and were coming to look for her .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cried ; `` I shall be eaten up , '' and being too frightened to run a single step , she began to cry , and leaned against the tree under which she had been asleep .
Just then she heard some one say : `` H 'm , h 'm ! ''
She looked all round her , and then up the tree , and there she saw a little tiny man , who was eating oranges .
`` Oh !
Queen , '' said he , `` I know you very well , and I know how much afraid you are of the lions ; and you are quite right too , for they have eaten many other people : and what can you expect , as you have not any cake to give them ? ''
`` I must make up my mind to die , '' said the poor Queen .
`` Alas !
I should not care so much if only my dear daughter were married . ''
`` Oh !
you have a daughter , '' cried the Yellow Dwarf -LRB- who was so called because he was a dwarf and had such a yellow face , and lived in the orange tree -RRB- .
`` I 'm really glad to hear that , for I 've been looking for a wife all over the world .
Now , if you will promise that she shall marry me , not one of the lions , tigers , or bears shall touch you . ''
The Queen looked at him and was almost as much afraid of his ugly little face as she had been of the lions before , so that she could not speak a word .
`` What !
you hesitate , madam , '' cried the Dwarf .
`` You must be very fond of being eaten up alive . ''
And , as he spoke , the Queen saw the lions , which were running down a hill toward them .
Each one had two heads , eight feet , and four rows of teeth , and their skins were as hard as turtle shells , and were bright red .
At this dreadful sight , the poor Queen , who was trembling like a dove when it sees a hawk , cried out as loud as she could , `` Oh !
dear Mr. Dwarf , Bellissima shall marry you . ''
`` Oh , indeed ! ''
said he disdainfully .
`` Bellissima is pretty enough , but I do n't particularly want to marry her -- you can keep her . ''
`` Oh !
noble sir , '' said the Queen in great distress , `` do not refuse her .
She is the most charming Princess in the world . ''
`` Oh !
well , '' he replied , `` out of charity I will take her ; but be sure and do n't forget that she is mine . ''
As he spoke a little door opened in the trunk of the orange tree , in rushed the Queen , only just in time , and the door shut with a bang in the faces of the lions .
The Queen was so confused that at first she did not notice another little door in the orange tree , but presently it opened and she found herself in a field of thistles and nettles .
It was encircled by a muddy ditch , and a little further on was a tiny thatched cottage , out of which came the Yellow Dwarf with a very jaunty air .
He wore wooden shoes and a little yellow coat , and as he had no hair and very long ears he looked altogether a shocking little object .
`` I am delighted , '' said he to the Queen , `` that , as you are to be my mother-in-law , you should see the little house in which your Bellissima will live with me .
With these thistles and nettles she can feed a donkey which she can ride whenever she likes ; under this humble roof no weather can hurt her ; she will drink the water of this brook and eat frogs -- which grow very fat about here ; and then she will have me always with her , handsome , agreeable , and gay as you see me now .
For if her shadow stays by her more closely than I do I shall be surprised . ''
The unhappy Queen , seeing all at once what a miserable life her daughter would have with this Dwarf could not bear the idea , and fell down insensible without saying a word .
When she revived she found to her great surprise that she was lying in her own bed at home , and , what was more , that she had on the loveliest lace night cap that she had ever seen in her life .
At first she thought that all her adventures , the terrible lions , and her promise to the Yellow Dwarf that he should marry Bellissima , must have been a dream , but there was the new cap with its beautiful ribbon and lace to remind her that it was all true , which made her so unhappy that she could neither eat , drink , nor sleep for thinking of it .
The Princess , who , in spite of her wilfulness , really loved her mother with all her heart , was much grieved when she saw her looking so sad , and often asked her what was the matter ; but the Queen , who did n't want her to find out the truth , only said that she was ill , or that one of her neighbors was threatening to make war against her .
Bellissima knew quite well that something was being hidden from her -- and that neither of these was the real reason of the Queen 's uneasiness .
So she made up her mind that she would go and consult the Fairy of the Desert about it , especially as she had often heard how wise she was , and she thought that at the same time she might ask her advice as to whether it would be as well to be married , or not .
So , with great care , she made some of the proper cake to pacify the lions , and one night went up to her room very early , pretending that she was going to bed ; but instead of that , she wrapped herself in a long white veil , and went down a secret staircase , and set off all by herself to find the Witch .
But when she got as far as the same fatal orange tree , and saw it covered with flowers and fruit , she stopped and began to gather some of the oranges -- and then , putting down her basket , she sat down to eat them .
But when it was time to go on again the basket had disappeared and , though she looked everywhere , not a trace of it could she find .
The more she hunted for it , the more frightened she got , and at last she began to cry .
Then all at once she saw before her the Yellow Dwarf .
`` What 's the matter with you , my pretty one ? ''
said he .
`` What are you crying about ? ''
`` Alas ! ''
she answered ; `` no wonder that I am crying , seeing that I have lost the basket of cake that was to help me to get safely to the cave of the Fairy of the Desert . ''
`` And what do you want with her , pretty one ? ''
said the little monster , `` for I am a friend of hers , and , for the matter of that , I am quite as clever as she is . ''
`` The Queen , my mother , '' replied the Princess , `` has lately fallen into such deep sadness that I fear that she will die ; and I am afraid that perhaps I am the cause of it , for she very much wishes me to be married , and I must tell you truly that as yet I have not found anyone I consider worthy to be my husband .
So for all these reasons I wished to talk to the Fairy . ''
`` Do not give yourself any further trouble , Princess , '' answered the Dwarf .
`` I can tell you all you want to know better than she could .
The Queen , your mother , has promised you in marriage -- '' `` Has promised me !
'' interrupted the Princess .
`` Oh !
no .
I 'm sure she has not .
She would have told me if she had .
I am too much interested in the matter for her to promise anything without my consent -- you must be mistaken . ''
`` Beautiful Princess , '' cried the Dwarf suddenly , throwing himself on his knees before her , `` I flatter myself that you will not be displeased at her choice when I tell you that it is to me she has promised the happiness of marrying you . ''
`` You ! ''
cried Bellissima , starting back .
`` My mother wishes me to marry you !
How can you be so silly as to think of such a thing ? ''
`` Oh !
it is n't that I care much to have that honor , '' cried the Dwarf angrily ; `` but here are the lions coming ; they 'll eat you up in three mouthfuls , and there will be an end of you and your pride . ''
And , indeed , at that moment the poor Princess heard their dreadful howls coming nearer and nearer .
`` What shall I do ? ''
she cried .
`` Must all my happy days come to an end like this ? ''
The malicious Dwarf looked at her and began to laugh spitefully .
`` At least , '' said he , `` you have the satisfaction of dying unmarried .
A lovely Princess like you must surely prefer to die rather than be the wife of a poor little dwarf like myself . ''
`` Oh , do n't be angry with me , '' cried the Princess , clasping her hands .
`` I 'd rather marry all the dwarfs in the world than die in this horrible way . ''
`` Look at me well , Princess , before you give me your word , '' said he .
`` I do n't want you to promise me in a hurry . ''
`` Oh ! ''
cried she , `` the lions are coming .
I have looked at you enough .
I am so frightened .
Save me this minute , or I shall die of terror . ''
Indeed , as she spoke she fell down insensible , and when she recovered she found herself in her own little bed at home ; how she got there she could not tell , but she was dressed in the most beautiful lace and ribbons , and on her finger was a little ring , made of a single red hair , which fitted so tightly that , try as she might , she could not get it off .
When the Princess saw all these things , and remembered what had happened , she , too , fell into the deepest sadness , which surprised and alarmed the whole Court , and the Queen more than anyone else .
A hundred times she asked Bellissima if anything was the matter with her ; but she always said that there was nothing .
At last the chief men of the kingdom , anxious to see their Princess married , sent to the Queen to beg her to choose a husband for her as soon as possible .
She replied that nothing would please her better , but that her daughter seemed so unwilling to marry , and she recommended them to go and talk to the Princess about it themselves so this they at once did .
Now Bellissima was much less proud since her adventure with the Yellow Dwarf , and she could not think of a better way of getting rid of the little monster than to marry some powerful king , therefore she replied to their request much more favorably than they had hoped , saying that , though she was very happy as she was , still , to please them , she would consent to marry the King of the Gold Mines .
Now he was a very handsome and powerful Prince , who had been in love with the Princess for years , but had not thought that she would ever care about him at all .
You can easily imagine how delighted he was when he heard the news , and how angry it made all the other kings to lose for ever the hope of marrying the Princess ; but , after all , Bellissima could not have married twenty kings -- indeed , she had found it quite difficult enough to choose one , for her vanity made her believe that there was nobody in the world who was worthy of her .
Preparations were begun at once for the grandest wedding that had ever been held at the palace .
The King of the Gold Mines sent such immense sums of money that the whole sea was covered with the ships that brought it .
Messengers were sent to all the gayest and most refined Courts , particularly to the Court of France , to seek out everything rare and precious to adorn the Princess , although her beauty was so perfect that nothing she wore could make her look prettier .
At least that is what the King of the Gold Mines thought , and he was never happy unless he was with her .
As for the Princess , the more she saw of the King the more she liked him ; he was so generous , so handsome and clever , that at last she was almost as much in love with him as he was with her .
How happy they were as they wandered about in the beautiful gardens together , sometimes listening to sweet music !
And the King used to write songs for Bellissima .
This is one that she liked very much : In the forest all is gay When my Princess walks that way .
All the blossoms then are found Downward fluttering to the ground , Hoping she may tread on them .
And bright flowers on slender stem Gaze up at her as she passes Brushing lightly through the grasses .
Oh !
my Princess , birds above Echo back our songs of love , As through this enchanted land Blithe we wander , hand in hand .
They really were as happy as the day was long .
All the King 's unsuccessful rivals had gone home in despair .
They said good-by to the Princess so sadly that she could not help being sorry for them .
`` Ah !
madam , '' the King of the Gold Mines said to her `` how is this ?
Why do you waste your pity on these princes , who love you so much that all their trouble would be well repaid by a single smile from you ? ''
`` I should be sorry , '' answered Bellissima , `` if you had not noticed how much I pitied these princes who were leaving me for ever ; but for you , sire , it is very different : you have every reason to be pleased with me , but they are going sorrowfully away , so you must not grudge them my compassion . ''
The King of the Gold Mines was quite overcome by the Princess 's good-natured way of taking his interference , and , throwing himself at her feet , he kissed her hand a thousand times and begged her to forgive him .
At last the happy day came .
Everything was ready for Bellissima 's wedding .
The trumpets sounded , all the streets of the town were hung with flags and strewn with flowers , and the people ran in crowds to the great square before the palace .
The Queen was so overjoyed that she had hardly been able to sleep at all , and she got up before it was light to give the necessary orders and to choose the jewels that the Princess was to wear .
These were nothing less than diamonds , even to her shoes , which were covered with them , and her dress of silver brocade was embroidered with a dozen of the sun 's rays .
You may imagine how much these had cost ; but then nothing could have been more brilliant , except the beauty of the Princess !
Upon her head she wore a splendid crown , her lovely hair waved nearly to her feet , and her stately figure could easily be distinguished among all the ladies who attended her .
The King of the Gold Mines was not less noble and splendid ; it was easy to see by his face how happy he was , and everyone who went near him returned loaded with presents , for all round the great banqueting hall had been arranged a thousand barrels full of gold , and numberless bags made of velvet embroidered with pearls and filled with money , each one containing at least a hundred thousand gold pieces , which were given away to everyone who liked to hold out his hand , which numbers of people hastened to do , you may be sure -- indeed , some found this by far the most amusing part of the wedding festivities .
The Queen and the Princess were just ready to set out with the King when they saw , advancing toward them from the end of the long gallery , two great basilisks , dragging after them a very badly made box ; behind them came a tall old woman , whose ugliness was even more surprising than her extreme old age .
She wore a ruff of black taffeta , a red velvet hood , and a farthingale all in rags , and she leaned heavily upon a crutch .
This strange old woman , without saying a single word , hobbled three times round the gallery , followed by the basilisks , then stopping in the middle , and brandishing her crutch threateningly , she cried : `` Ho , ho , Queen !
Ho , ho , Princess !
Do you think you are going to break with impunity the promise that you made to my friend the Yellow Dwarf ?
I am the Fairy of the Desert ; without the Yellow Dwarf and his orange tree my great lions would soon have eaten you up , I can tell you , and in Fairyland we do not suffer ourselves to be insulted like this .
Make up your minds at once what you will do , for I vow that you shall marry the Yellow Dwarf .
If you do n't , may I burn my crutch ! ''
`` Ah !
Princess , '' said the Queen , weeping , `` what is this that I hear ?
What have you promised ? ''
`` Ah !
my mother , '' replied Bellissima sadly , `` what did you promise , yourself ? ''
The King of the Gold Mines , indignant at being kept from his happiness by this wicked old woman , went up to her , and threatening her with his sword , said : `` Get away out of my country at once , and for ever , miserable creature , lest I take your life , and so rid myself of your malice . ''
He had hardly spoken these words when the lid of the box fell back on the floor with a terrible noise , and to their horror out sprang the Yellow Dwarf , mounted upon a great Spanish cat .
`` Rash youth ! ''
he cried , rushing between the Fairy of the Desert and the King .
`` Dare to lay a finger upon this illustrious Fairy !
Your quarrel is with me only .
I am your enemy and your rival .
That faithless Princess who would have married you is promised to me .
See if she has not upon her finger a ring made of one of my hairs .
Just try to take it off , and you will soon find out that I am more powerful than you are ! ''
`` Wretched little monster ! ''
said the King ; `` do you dare to call yourself the Princess 's lover , and to lay claim to such a treasure ?
Do you know that you are a dwarf -- that you are so ugly that one can not bear to look at you -- and that I should have killed you myself long before this if you had been worthy of such a glorious death ? ''
The Yellow Dwarf , deeply enraged at these words , set spurs to his cat , which yelled horribly , and leaped hither and thither -- terrifying everybody except the brave King , who pursued the Dwarf closely , till he , drawing a great knife with which he was armed , challenged the King to meet him in single combat , and rushed down into the courtyard of the palace with a terrible clatter .
The King , quite provoked , followed him hastily , but they had hardly taken their places facing one another , and the whole Court had only just had time to rush out upon the balconies to watch what was going on , when suddenly the sun became as red as blood , and it was so dark that they could scarcely see at all .
The thunder crashed , and the lightning seemed as if it must burn up everything ; the two basilisks appeared , one on each side of the bad Dwarf , like giants , mountains high , and fire flew from their mouths and ears , until they looked like flaming furnaces .
None of these things could terrify the noble young King , and the boldness of his looks and actions reassured those who were looking on , and perhaps even embarrassed the Yellow Dwarf himself ; but even his courage gave way when he saw what was happening to his beloved Princess .
For the Fairy of the Desert , looking more terrible than before , mounted upon a winged griffin , and with long snakes coiled round her neck , had given her such a blow with the lance she carried that Bellissima fell into the Queen 's arms bleeding and senseless .
Her fond mother , feeling as much hurt by the blow as the Princess herself , uttered such piercing cries and lamentations that the King , hearing them , entirely lost his courage and presence of mind .
Giving up the combat , he flew toward the Princess , to rescue or to die with her ; but the Yellow Dwarf was too quick for him .
Leaping with his Spanish cat upon the balcony , he snatched Bellissima from the Queen 's arms , and before any of the ladies of the Court could stop him he had sprung upon the roof of the palace and disappeared with his prize .
The King , motionless with horror , looked on despairingly at this dreadful occurrence , which he was quite powerless to prevent , and to make matters worse his sight failed him , everything became dark , and he felt himself carried along through the air by a strong hand .
This new misfortune was the work of the wicked Fairy of the Desert , who had come with the Yellow Dwarf to help him carry off the Princess , and had fallen in love with the handsome young King of the Gold Mines directly she saw him .
She thought that if she carried him off to some frightful cavern and chained him to a rock , then the fear of death would make him forget Bellissima and become her slave .
So , as soon as they reached the place , she gave him back his sight , but without releasing him from his chains , and by her magic power she appeared before him as a young and beautiful fairy , and pretended to have come there quite by chance .
`` What do I see ? ''
she cried .
`` Is it you , dear Prince ?
What misfortune has brought you to this dismal place ? ''
The King , who was quite deceived by her altered appearance , replied : `` Alas !
beautiful Fairy , the fairy who brought me here first took away my sight , but by her voice I recognized her as the Fairy of the Desert , though what she should have carried me off for I can not tell you . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cried the pretended Fairy , `` if you have fallen into her hands , you wo n't get away until you have married her .
She has carried off more than one Prince like this , and she will certainly have anything she takes a fancy to . ''
While she was thus pretending to be sorry for the King , he suddenly noticed her feet , which were like those of a griffin , and knew in a moment that this must be the Fairy of the Desert , for her feet were the one thing she could not change , however pretty she might make her face .
Without seeming to have noticed anything , he said , in a confidential way : `` Not that I have any dislike to the Fairy of the Desert , but I really can not endure the way in which she protects the Yellow Dwarf and keeps me chained here like a criminal .
It is true that I love a charming princess , but if the Fairy should set me free my gratitude would oblige me to love her only . ''
`` Do you really mean what you say , Prince ? ''
said the Fairy , quite deceived .
`` Surely , '' replied the Prince ; `` how could I deceive you ?
You see it is so much more flattering to my vanity to be loved by a fairy than by a simple princess .
But , even if I am dying of love for her , I shall pretend to hate her until I am set free . ''
The Fairy of the Desert , quite taken in by these words , resolved at once to transport the Prince to a pleasanter place .
So , making him mount her chariot , to which she had harnessed swans instead of the bats which generally drew it , away she flew with him .
But imagine the distress of the Prince when , from the giddy height at which they were rushing through the air , he saw his beloved Princess in a castle built of polished steel , the walls of which reflected the sun 's rays so hotly that no one could approach it without being burnt to a cinder !
Bellissima was sitting in a little thicket by a brook , leaning her head upon her hand and weeping bitterly , but just as they passed she looked up and saw the King and the Fairy of the Desert .
Now , the Fairy was so clever that she could not only seem beautiful to the King , but even the poor Princess thought her the most lovely being she had ever seen .
`` What ! ''
she cried ; `` was I not unhappy enough in this lonely castle to which that frightful Yellow Dwarf brought me ?
Must I also be made to know that the King of the Gold Mines ceased to love me as soon as he lost sight of me ?
But who can my rival be , whose fatal beauty is greater than mine ? ''
While she was saying this , the King , who really loved her as much as ever , was feeling terribly sad at being so rapidly torn away from his beloved Princess , but he knew too well how powerful the Fairy was to have any hope of escaping from her except by great patience and cunning .
The Fairy of the Desert had also seen Bellissima , and she tried to read in the King 's eyes the effect that this unexpected sight had had upon him .
`` No one can tell you what you wish to know better than I can , '' said he .
`` This chance meeting with an unhappy princess for whom I once had a passing fancy , before I was lucky enough to meet you , has affected me a little , I admit , but you are so much more to me than she is that I would rather die than leave you . ''
`` Ah , Prince , '' she said , `` can I believe that you really love me so much ? ''
`` Time will show , madam , '' replied the King ; `` but if you wish to convince me that you have some regard for me , do not , I beg of you , refuse to aid Bellissima . ''
`` Do you know what you are asking ? ''
said the Fairy of the Desert , frowning , and looking at him suspiciously .
`` Do you want me to employ my art against the Yellow Dwarf , who is my best friend , and take away from him a proud princess whom I can but look upon as my rival ? ''
The King sighed , but made no answer -- indeed , what was there to be said to such a clear-sighted person ?
At last they reached a vast meadow , gay with all sorts of flowers ; a deep river surrounded it , and many little brooks murmured softly under the shady trees , where it was always cool and fresh .
A little way off stood a splendid palace , the walls of which were of transparent emeralds .
As soon as the swans which drew the Fairy 's chariot had alighted under a porch , which was paved with diamonds and had arches of rubies , they were greeted on all sides by thousands of beautiful beings , who came to meet them joyfully , singing these words : `` When Love within a heart would reign , Useless to strive against him 't is .
The proud but feel a sharper pain , And make a greater triumph his . ''
The Fairy of the Desert was delighted to hear them sing of her triumphs ; she led the King into the most splendid room that can be imagined , and left him alone for a little while , just that he might not feel that he was a prisoner ; but he felt sure that she had not really gone quite away , but was watching him from some hiding-place .
So walking up to a great mirror , he said to it , `` Trusty counsellor , let me see what I can do to make myself agreeable to the charming Fairy of the Desert ; for I can think of nothing but how to please her . ''
And he at once set to work to curl his hair , and , seeing upon a table a grander coat than his own , he put it on carefully .
The Fairy came back so delighted that she could not conceal her joy .
`` I am quite aware of the trouble you have taken to please me , '' said she , `` and I must tell you that you have succeeded perfectly already .
You see it is not difficult to do if you really care for me . ''
The King , who had his own reasons for wishing to keep the old Fairy in a good humor , did not spare pretty speeches , and after a time he was allowed to walk by himself upon the sea-shore .
The Fairy of the Desert had by her enchantments raised such a terrible storm that the boldest pilot would not venture out in it , so she was not afraid of her prisoner 's being able to escape ; and he found it some relief to think sadly over his terrible situation without being interrupted by his cruel captor .
Presently , after walking wildly up and down , he wrote these verses upon the sand with his stick : `` At last may I upon this shore Lighten my sorrow with soft tears .
Alas !
alas !
I see no more My Love , who yet my sadness cheers .
`` And thou , O raging , stormy Sea , Stirred by wild winds , from depth to height , Thou hold ` st my loved one far from me , And I am captive to thy might .
`` My heart is still more wild than thine , For Fate is cruel unto me .
Why must I thus in exile pine ?
Why is my Princess snatched from me ?
`` O !
lovely Nymphs , from ocean caves , Who know how sweet true love may be , Come up and calm the furious waves And set a desperate lover free ! ''
While he was still writing he heard a voice which attracted his attention in spite of himself .
Seeing that the waves were rolling in higher than ever , he looked all round , and presently saw a lovely lady floating gently toward him upon the crest of a huge billow , her long hair spread all about her ; in one hand she held a mirror , and in the other a comb , and instead of feet she had a beautiful tail like a fish , with which she swam .
The King was struck dumb with astonishment at this unexpected sight ; but as soon as she came within speaking distance , she said to him , `` I know how sad you are at losing your Princess and being kept a prisoner by the Fairy of the Desert ; if you like I will help you to escape from this fatal place , where you may otherwise have to drag on a weary existence for thirty years or more . ''
The King of the Gold Mines hardly knew what answer to make to this proposal .
Not because he did not wish very much to escape , but he was afraid that this might be only another device by which the Fairy of the Desert was trying to deceive him .
As he hesitated the Mermaid , who guessed his thoughts , said to him : `` You may trust me : I am not trying to entrap you .
I am so angry with the Yellow Dwarf and the Fairy of the Desert that I am not likely to wish to help them , especially since I constantly see your poor Princess , whose beauty and goodness make me pity her so much ; and I tell you that if you will have confidence in me I will help you to escape . ''
`` I trust you absolutely , '' cried the King , `` and I will do whatever you tell me ; but if you have seen my Princess I beg of you to tell me how she is and what is happening to her .
`` We must not waste time in talking , '' said she .
`` Come with me and I will carry you to the Castle of Steel , and we will leave upon this shore a figure so like you that even the Fairy herself will be deceived by it . ''
So saying , she quickly collected a bundle of sea-weed , and , blowing it three times , she said : `` My friendly sea-weeds , I order you to stay here stretched upon the sand until the Fairy of the Desert comes to take you away . ''
And at once the sea-weeds became like the King , who stood looking at them in great astonishment , for they were even dressed in a coat like his , but they lay there pale and still as the King himself might have lain if one of the great waves had overtaken him and thrown him senseless upon the shore .
And then the Mermaid caught up the King , and away they swam joyfully together .
`` Now , '' said she , `` I have time to tell you about the Princess .
In spite of the blow which the Fairy of the Desert gave her , the Yellow Dwarf compelled her to mount behind him upon his terrible Spanish cat ; but she soon fainted away with pain and terror , and did not recover till they were within the walls of his frightful Castle of Steel .
Here she was received by the prettiest girls it was possible to find , who had been carried there by the Yellow Dwarf , who hastened to wait upon her and showed her every possible attention .
She was laid upon a couch covered with cloth of gold , embroidered with pearls as big as nuts . ''
`` Ah ! ''
interrupted the King of the Gold Mines , `` if Bellissima forgets me , and consents to marry him , I shall break my heart . ''
`` You need not be afraid of that , '' answered the Mermaid , `` the Princess thinks of no one but you , and the frightful Dwarf can not persuade her to look at him . ''
`` Pray go on with your story , '' said the King .
`` What more is there to tell you ? ''
replied the Mermaid .
`` Bellissima was sitting in the wood when you passed , and saw you with the Fairy of the Desert , who was so cleverly disguised that the Princess took her to be prettier than herself ; you may imagine her despair , for she thought that you had fallen in love with her . ''
`` She believes that I love her ! ''
cried the King .
`` What a fatal mistake !
What is to be done to undeceive her ? ''
`` You know best , '' answered the Mermaid , smiling kindly at him .
`` When people are as much in love with one another as you two are , they do n't need advice from anyone else . ''
As she spoke they reached the Castle of Steel , the side next the sea being the only one which the Yellow Dwarf had left unprotected by the dreadful burning walls .
`` I know quite well , '' said the Mermaid , `` that the Princess is sitting by the brook-side , just where you saw her as you passed , but as you will have many enemies to fight with before you can reach her , take this sword ; armed with it you may dare any danger , and overcome the greatest difficulties , only beware of one thing -- that is , never to let it fall from your hand .
Farewell ; now I will wait by that rock , and if you need my help in carrying off your beloved Princess I will not fail you , for the Queen , her mother , is my best friend , and it was for her sake that I went to rescue you . ''
So saying , she gave to the King a sword made from a single diamond , which was more brilliant than the sun .
He could not find words to express his gratitude , but he begged her to believe that he fully appreciated the importance of her gift , and would never forget her help and kindness .
We must now go back to the Fairy of the Desert .
When she found that the King did not return , she hastened out to look for him , and reached the shore , with a hundred of the ladies of her train , loaded with splendid presents for him .
Some carried baskets full of diamonds , others golden cups of wonderful workmanship , and amber , coral , and pearls , others , again , balanced upon their heads bales of the richest and most beautiful stuffs , while the rest brought fruit and flowers , and even birds .
But what was the horror of the Fairy , who followed this gay troop , when she saw , stretched upon the sands , the image of the King which the Mermaid had made with the sea-weeds .
Struck with astonishment and sorrow , she uttered a terrible cry , and threw herself down beside the pretended King , weeping , and howling , and calling upon her eleven sisters , who were also fairies , and who came to her assistance .
But they were all taken in by the image of the King , for , clever as they were , the Mermaid was still cleverer , and all they could do was to help the Fairy of the Desert to make a wonderful monument over what they thought was the grave of the King of the Gold Mines .
But while they were collecting jasper and porphyry , agate and marble , gold and bronze , statues and devices , to immortalize the King 's memory , he was thanking the good Mermaid and begging her still to help him , which she graciously promised to do as she disappeared ; and then he set out for the Castle of Steel .
He walked fast , looking anxiously round him , and longing once more to see his darling Bellissima , but he had not gone far before he was surrounded by four terrible sphinxes who would very soon have torn him to pieces with their sharp talons if it had not been for the Mermaid 's diamond sword .
For , no sooner had he flashed it before their eyes than down they fell at his feet quite helpless , and he killed them with one blow .
But he had hardly turned to continue his search when he met six dragons covered with scales that were harder than iron .
Frightful as this encounter was the King 's courage was unshaken , and by the aid of his wonderful sword he cut them in pieces one after the other .
Now he hoped his difficulties were over , but at the next turning he was met by one which he did not know how to overcome .
Four-and-twenty pretty and graceful nymphs advanced toward him , holding garlands of flowers , with which they barred the way .
`` Where are you going , Prince ? ''
they said ; `` it is our duty to guard this place , and if we let you pass great misfortunes will happen to you and to us .
We beg you not to insist upon going on .
Do you want to kill four-and-twenty girls who have never displeased you in any way ? ''
The King did not know what to do or to say .
It went against all his ideas as a knight to do anything a lady begged him not to do ; but , as he hesitated , a voice in his ear said : `` Strike !
strike !
and do not spare , or your Princess is lost for ever ! ''
So , without reply to the nymphs , he rushed forward instantly , breaking their garlands , and scattering them in all directions ; and then went on without further hindrance to the little wood where he had seen Bellissima .
She was seated by the brook looking pale and weary when he reached her , and he would have thrown himself down at her feet , but she drew herself away from him with as much indignation as if he had been the Yellow Dwarf .
`` Ah !
Princess , '' he cried , `` do not be angry with me .
Let me explain everything .
I am not faithless or to blame for what has happened .
I am a miserable wretch who has displeased you without being able to help himself . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cried Bellissima , `` did I not see you flying through the air with the loveliest being imaginable ?
Was that against your will ? ''
`` Indeed it was , Princess , '' he answered ; `` the wicked Fairy of the Desert , not content with chaining me to a rock , carried me off in her chariot to the other end of the earth , where I should even now be a captive but for the unexpected help of a friendly mermaid , who brought me here to rescue you , my Princess , from the unworthy hands that hold you .
Do not refuse the aid of your most faithful lover . ''
So saying , he threw himself at her feet and held her by her robe .
But , alas !
in so doing he let fall the magic sword , and the Yellow Dwarf , who was crouching behind a lettuce , no sooner saw it than he sprang out and seized it , well knowing its wonderful power .
The Princess gave a cry of terror on seeing the Dwarf , but this only irritated the little monster ; muttering a few magical words he summoned two giants , who bound the King with great chains of iron .
`` Now , '' said the Dwarf , `` I am master of my rival 's fate , but I will give him his life and permission to depart unharmed if you , Princess , will consent to marry me . ''
`` Let me die a thousand times rather , '' cried the unhappy King .
`` Alas ! ''
cried the Princess , `` must you die ?
Could anything be more terrible ? ''
`` That you should marry that little wretch would be far more terrible , '' answered the King .
`` At least , '' continued she , `` let us die together . ''
`` Let me have the satisfaction of dying for you , my Princess , '' said he .
`` Oh , no , no ! ''
she cried , turning to the Dwarf ; `` rather than that I will do as you wish . ''
`` Cruel Princess ! ''
said the King , `` would you make my life horrible to me by marrying another before my eyes ? ''
`` Not so , '' replied the Yellow Dwarf ; `` you are a rival of whom I am too much afraid ; you shall not see our marriage . ''
So saying , in spite of Bellissima 's tears and cries , he stabbed the King to the heart with the diamond sword .
The poor Princess , seeing her lover lying dead at her feet , could no longer live without him ; she sank down by him and died of a broken heart .
So ended these unfortunate lovers , whom not even the Mermaid could help , because all the magic power had been lost with the diamond sword .
As to the wicked Dwarf , he preferred to see the Princess dead rather than married to the King of the Gold Mines ; and the Fairy of the Desert , when she heard of the King 's adventures , pulled down the grand monument which she had built , and was so angry at the trick that had been played her that she hated him as much as she had loved him before .
The kind Mermaid , grieved at the sad fate of the lovers , caused them to be changed into two tall palm trees , which stand always side by side , whispering together of their faithful love and caressing one another with their interlacing branches .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD Once upon a time there lived in a certain village a little country girl , the prettiest creature was ever seen .
Her mother was excessively fond of her ; and her grandmother doted on her still more .
This good woman had made for her a little red riding-hood ; which became the girl so extremely well that everybody called her Little Red Riding-Hood .
One day her mother , having made some custards , said to her : `` Go , my dear , and see how thy grandmamma does , for I hear she has been very ill ; carry her a custard , and this little pot of butter . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood set out immediately to go to her grandmother , who lived in another village .
As she was going through the wood , she met with Gaffer Wolf , who had a very great mind to eat her up , but he dared not , because of some faggot-makers hard by in the forest .
He asked her whither she was going .
The poor child , who did not know that it was dangerous to stay and hear a wolf talk , said to him : `` I am going to see my grandmamma and carry her a custard and a little pot of butter from my mamma . ''
`` Does she live far off ? ''
said the Wolf .
`` Oh !
ay , '' answered Little Red Riding-Hood ; `` it is beyond that mill you see there , at the first house in the village . ''
`` Well , '' said the Wolf , `` and I 'll go and see her too .
I 'll go this way and you go that , and we shall see who will be there soonest . ''
The Wolf began to run as fast as he could , taking the nearest way , and the little girl went by that farthest about , diverting herself in gathering nuts , running after butterflies , and making nosegays of such little flowers as she met with .
The Wolf was not long before he got to the old woman 's house .
He knocked at the door -- tap , tap .
`` Who 's there ? ''
`` Your grandchild , Little Red Riding-Hood , '' replied the Wolf , counterfeiting her voice ; `` who has brought you a custard and a little pot of butter sent you by mamma . ''
The good grandmother , who was in bed , because she was somewhat ill , cried out : `` Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . ''
The Wolf pulled the bobbin , and the door opened , and then presently he fell upon the good woman and ate her up in a moment , for it was above three days that he had not touched a bit .
He then shut the door and went into the grandmother 's bed , expecting Little Red Riding-Hood , who came some time afterward and knocked at the door -- tap , tap .
`` Who 's there ? ''
Little Red Riding-Hood , hearing the big voice of the Wolf , was at first afraid ; but believing her grandmother had got a cold and was hoarse , answered : '' 'T is your grandchild , Little Red Riding-Hood , who has brought you a custard and a little pot of butter mamma sends you . ''
The Wolf cried out to her , softening his voice as much as he could : `` Pull the bobbin , and the latch will go up . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood pulled the bobbin , and the door opened .
The Wolf , seeing her come in , said to her , hiding himself under the bed-clothes : `` Put the custard and the little pot of butter upon the stool , and come and lie down with me . ''
Little Red Riding-Hood undressed herself and went into bed , where , being greatly amazed to see how her grandmother looked in her night-clothes , she said to her : `` Grandmamma , what great arms you have got ! ''
`` That is the better to hug thee , my dear . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great legs you have got ! ''
`` That is to run the better , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great ears you have got ! ''
`` That is to hear the better , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great eyes you have got ! ''
`` It is to see the better , my child . ''
`` Grandmamma , what great teeth you have got ! ''
`` That is to eat thee up . ''
And , saying these words , this wicked wolf fell upon Little Red Riding-Hood , and ate her all up .
THE SLEEPING BEAUTY IN THE WOOD There were formerly a king and a queen , who were so sorry that they had no children ; so sorry that it can not be expressed .
They went to all the waters in the world ; vows , pilgrimages , all ways were tried , and all to no purpose .
At last , however , the Queen had a daughter .
There was a very fine christening ; and the Princess had for her god-mothers all the fairies they could find in the whole kingdom -LRB- they found seven -RRB- , that every one of them might give her a gift , as was the custom of fairies in those days .
By this means the Princess had all the perfections imaginable .
After the ceremonies of the christening were over , all the company returned to the King 's palace , where was prepared a great feast for the fairies .
There was placed before every one of them a magnificent cover with a case of massive gold , wherein were a spoon , knife , and fork , all of pure gold set with diamonds and rubies .
But as they were all sitting down at table they saw come into the hall a very old fairy , whom they had not invited , because it was above fifty years since she had been out of a certain tower , and she was believed to be either dead or enchanted .
The King ordered her a cover , but could not furnish her with a case of gold as the others , because they had only seven made for the seven fairies .
The old Fairy fancied she was slighted , and muttered some threats between her teeth .
One of the young fairies who sat by her overheard how she grumbled ; and , judging that she might give the little Princess some unlucky gift , went , as soon as they rose from table , and hid herself behind the hangings , that she might speak last , and repair , as much as she could , the evil which the old Fairy might intend .
In the meanwhile all the fairies began to give their gifts to the Princess .
The youngest gave her for gift that she should be the most beautiful person in the world ; the next , that she should have the wit of an angel ; the third , that she should have a wonderful grace in everything she did ; the fourth , that she should dance perfectly well ; the fifth , that she should sing like a nightingale ; and the sixth , that she should play all kinds of music to the utmost perfection .
The old Fairy 's turn coming next , with a head shaking more with spite than age , she said that the Princess should have her hand pierced with a spindle and die of the wound .
This terrible gift made the whole company tremble , and everybody fell a-crying .
At this very instant the young Fairy came out from behind the hangings , and spake these words aloud : `` Assure yourselves , O King and Queen , that your daughter shall not die of this disaster .
It is true , I have no power to undo entirely what my elder has done .
The Princess shall indeed pierce her hand with a spindle ; but , instead of dying , she shall only fall into a profound sleep , which shall last a hundred years , at the expiration of which a king 's son shall come and awake her . ''
The King , to avoid the misfortune foretold by the old Fairy , caused immediately proclamation to be made , whereby everybody was forbidden , on pain of death , to spin with a distaff and spindle , or to have so much as any spindle in their houses .
About fifteen or sixteen years after , the King and Queen being gone to one of their houses of pleasure , the young Princess happened one day to divert herself in running up and down the palace ; when going up from one apartment to another , she came into a little room on the top of the tower , where a good old woman , alone , was spinning with her spindle .
This good woman had never heard of the King 's proclamation against spindles .
`` What are you doing there , goody ? ''
said the Princess .
`` I am spinning , my pretty child , '' said the old woman , who did not know who she was .
`` Ha ! ''
said the Princess , `` this is very pretty ; how do you do it ?
Give it to me , that I may see if I can do so . ''
She had no sooner taken it into her hand than , whether being very hasty at it , somewhat unhandy , or that the decree of the Fairy had so ordained it , it ran into her hand , and she fell down in a swoon .
The good old woman , not knowing very well what to do in this affair , cried out for help .
People came in from every quarter in great numbers ; they threw water upon the Princess 's face , unlaced her , struck her on the palms of her hands , and rubbed her temples with Hungary-water ; but nothing would bring her to herself .
And now the King , who came up at the noise , bethought himself of the prediction of the fairies , and , judging very well that this must necessarily come to pass , since the fairies had said it , caused the Princess to be carried into the finest apartment in his palace , and to be laid upon a bed all embroidered with gold and silver .
One would have taken her for a little angel , she was so very beautiful ; for her swooning away had not diminished one bit of her complexion ; her cheeks were carnation , and her lips were coral ; indeed , her eyes were shut , but she was heard to breathe softly , which satisfied those about her that she was not dead .
The King commanded that they should not disturb her , but let her sleep quietly till her hour of awaking was come .
The good Fairy who had saved her life by condemning her to sleep a hundred years was in the kingdom of Matakin , twelve thousand leagues off , when this accident befell the Princess ; but she was instantly informed of it by a little dwarf , who had boots of seven leagues , that is , boots with which he could tread over seven leagues of ground in one stride .
The Fairy came away immediately , and she arrived , about an hour after , in a fiery chariot drawn by dragons .
The King handed her out of the chariot , and she approved everything he had done , but as she had very great foresight , she thought when the Princess should awake she might not know what to do with herself , being all alone in this old palace ; and this was what she did : she touched with her wand everything in the palace -LRB- except the King and Queen -RRB- -- governesses , maids of honor , ladies of the bedchamber , gentlemen , officers , stewards , cooks , undercooks , scullions , guards , with their beefeaters , pages , footmen ; she likewise touched all the horses which were in the stables , pads as well as others , the great dogs in the outward court and pretty little Mopsey too , the Princess 's little spaniel , which lay by her on the bed .
Immediately upon her touching them they all fell asleep , that they might not awake before their mistress and that they might be ready to wait upon her when she wanted them .
The very spits at the fire , as full as they could hold of partridges and pheasants , did fall asleep also .
All this was done in a moment .
Fairies are not long in doing their business .
And now the King and the Queen , having kissed their dear child without waking her , went out of the palace and put forth a proclamation that nobody should dare to come near it .
This , however , was not necessary , for in a quarter of an hour 's time there grew up all round about the park such a vast number of trees , great and small , bushes and brambles , twining one within another , that neither man nor beast could pass through ; so that nothing could be seen but the very top of the towers of the palace ; and that , too , not unless it was a good way off .
Nobody ; doubted but the Fairy gave herein a very extraordinary sample of her art , that the Princess , while she continued sleeping , might have nothing to fear from any curious people .
When a hundred years were gone and passed the son of the King then reigning , and who was of another family from that of the sleeping Princess , being gone a-hunting on that side of the country , asked : What those towers were which he saw in the middle of a great thick wood ?
Everyone answered according as they had heard .
Some said : That it was a ruinous old castle , haunted by spirits .
Others , That all the sorcerers and witches of the country kept there their sabbath or night 's meeting .
The common opinion was : That an ogre lived there , and that he carried thither all the little children he could catch , that he might eat them up at his leisure , without anybody being able to follow him , as having himself only the power to pass through the wood .
The Prince was at a stand , not knowing what to believe , when a very good countryman spake to him thus : `` May it please your royal highness , it is now about fifty years since I heard from my father , who heard my grandfather say , that there was then in this castle a princess , the most beautiful was ever seen ; that she must sleep there a hundred years , and should be waked by a king 's son , for whom she was reserved . ''
The young Prince was all on fire at these words , believing , without weighing the matter , that he could put an end to this rare adventure ; and , pushed on by love and honor , resolved that moment to look into it .
Scarce had he advanced toward the wood when all the great trees , the bushes , and brambles gave way of themselves to let him pass through ; he walked up to the castle which he saw at the end of a large avenue which he went into ; and what a little surprised him was that he saw none of his people could follow him , because the trees closed again as soon as he had passed through them .
However , he did not cease from continuing his way ; a young and amorous prince is always valiant .
He came into a spacious outward court , where everything he saw might have frozen the most fearless person with horror .
There reigned all over a most frightful silence ; the image of death everywhere showed itself , and there was nothing to be seen but stretched-out bodies of men and animals , all seeming to be dead .
He , however , very well knew , by the ruby faces and pimpled noses of the beefeaters , that they were only asleep ; and their goblets , wherein still remained some drops of wine , showed plainly that they fell asleep in their cups .
He then crossed a court paved with marble , went up the stairs and came into the guard chamber , where guards were standing in their ranks , with their muskets upon their shoulders , and snoring as loud as they could .
After that he went through several rooms full of gentlemen and ladies , all asleep , some standing , others sitting .
At last he came into a chamber all gilded with gold , where he saw upon a bed , the curtains of which were all open , the finest sight was ever beheld -- a princess , who appeared to be about fifteen or sixteen years of age , and whose bright and , in a manner , resplendent beauty , had somewhat in it divine .
He approached with trembling and admiration , and fell down before her upon his knees .
And now , as the enchantment was at an end , the Princess awaked , and looking on him with eyes more tender than the first view might seem to admit of : `` Is it you , my Prince ? ''
said she to him .
`` You have waited a long while . ''
The Prince , charmed with these words , and much more with the manner in which they were spoken , knew not how to show his joy and gratitude ; he assured her that he loved her better than he did himself ; their discourse was not well connected , they did weep more than talk -- little eloquence , a great deal of love .
He was more at a loss than she , and we need not wonder at it ; she had time to think on what to say to him ; for it is very probable -LRB- though history mentions nothing of it -RRB- that the good Fairy , during so long a sleep , had given her very agreeable dreams .
In short , they talked four hours together , and yet they said not half what they had to say .
In the meanwhile all the palace awaked ; everyone thought upon their particular business , and as all of them were not in love they were ready to die for hunger .
The chief lady of honor , being as sharp set as other folks , grew very impatient , and told the Princess aloud that supper was served up .
The Prince helped the Princess to rise ; she was entirely dressed , and very magnificently , but his royal highness took care not to tell her that she was dressed like his great-grandmother , and had a point band peeping over a high collar ; she looked not a bit less charming and beautiful for all that .
They went into the great hall of looking-glasses , where they supped , and were served by the Princess 's officers , the violins and hautboys played old tunes , but very excellent , though it was now above a hundred years since they had played ; and after supper , without losing any time , the lord almoner married them in the chapel of the castle , and the chief lady of honor drew the curtains .
They had but very little sleep -- the Princess had no occasion ; and the Prince left her next morning to return to the city , where his father must needs have been in pain for him .
The Prince told him : That he lost his way in the forest as he was hunting , and that he had lain in the cottage of a charcoal-burner , who gave him cheese and brown bread .
The King , his father , who was a good man , believed him ; but his mother could not be persuaded it was true ; and seeing that he went almost every day a-hunting , and that he always had some excuse ready for so doing , though he had lain out three or four nights together , she began to suspect that he was married , for he lived with the Princess above two whole years , and had by her two children , the eldest of which , who was a daughter , was named Morning , and the youngest , who was a son , they called Day , because he was a great deal handsomer and more beautiful than his sister .
The Queen spoke several times to her son , to inform herself after what manner he did pass his time , and that in this he ought in duty to satisfy her .
But he never dared to trust her with his secret ; he feared her , though he loved her , for she was of the race of the Ogres , and the King would never have married her had it not been for her vast riches ; it was even whispered about the Court that she had Ogreish inclinations , and that , whenever she saw little children passing by , she had all the difficulty in the world to avoid falling upon them .
And so the Prince would never tell her one word .
But when the King was dead , which happened about two years afterward , and he saw himself lord and master , he openly declared his marriage ; and he went in great ceremony to conduct his Queen to the palace .
They made a magnificent entry into the capital city , she riding between her two children .
Soon after the King went to make war with the Emperor Contalabutte , his neighbor .
He left the government of the kingdom to the Queen his mother , and earnestly recommended to her care his wife and children .
He was obliged to continue his expedition all the summer , and as soon as he departed the Queen-mother sent her daughter-in-law to a country house among the woods , that she might with the more ease gratify her horrible longing .
Some few days afterward she went thither herself , and said to her clerk of the kitchen : `` I have a mind to eat little Morning for my dinner to-morrow . ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' cried the clerk of the kitchen .
`` I will have it so , '' replied the Queen -LRB- and this she spoke in the tone of an Ogress who had a strong desire to eat fresh meat -RRB- , `` and will eat her with a sauce Robert . ''
The poor man , knowing very well that he must not play tricks with Ogresses , took his great knife and went up into little Morning 's chamber .
She was then four years old , and came up to him jumping and laughing , to take him about the neck , and ask him for some sugar-candy .
Upon which he began to weep , the great knife fell out of his hand , and he went into the back yard , and killed a little lamb , and dressed it with such good sauce that his mistress assured him that she had never eaten anything so good in her life .
He had at the same time taken up little Morning , and carried her to his wife , to conceal her in the lodging he had at the bottom of the courtyard .
About eight days afterward the wicked Queen said to the clerk of the kitchen , `` I will sup on little Day . ''
He answered not a word , being resolved to cheat her as he had done before .
He went to find out little Day , and saw him with a little foil in his hand , with which he was fencing with a great monkey , the child being then only three years of age .
He took him up in his arms and carried him to his wife , that she might conceal him in her chamber along with his sister , and in the room of little Day cooked up a young kid , very tender , which the Ogress found to be wonderfully good .
This was hitherto all mighty well ; but one evening this wicked Queen said to her clerk of the kitchen : `` I will eat the Queen with the same sauce I had with her children . ''
It was now that the poor clerk of the kitchen despaired of being able to deceive her .
The young Queen was turned of twenty , not reckoning the hundred years she had been asleep ; and how to find in the yard a beast so firm was what puzzled him .
He took then a resolution , that he might save his own life , to cut the Queen 's throat ; and going up into her chamber , with intent to do it at once , he put himself into as great fury as he could possibly , and came into the young Queen 's room with his dagger in his hand .
He would not , however , surprise her , but told her , with a great deal of respect , the orders he had received from the Queen-mother .
`` Do it ; do it '' -LRB- said she , stretching out her neck -RRB- .
`` Execute your orders , and then I shall go and see my children , my poor children , whom I so much and so tenderly loved . ''
For she thought them dead ever since they had been taken away without her knowledge .
`` No , no , madam '' -LRB- cried the poor clerk of the kitchen , all in tears -RRB- ; `` you shall not die , and yet you shall see your children again ; but then you must go home with me to my lodgings , where I have concealed them , and I shall deceive the Queen once more , by giving her in your stead a young hind . ''
Upon this he forthwith conducted her to his chamber , where , leaving her to embrace her children , and cry along with them , he went and dressed a young hind , which the Queen had for her supper , and devoured it with the same appetite as if it had been the young Queen .
Exceedingly was she delighted with her cruelty , and she had invented a story to tell the King , at his return , how the mad wolves had eaten up the Queen his wife and her two children .
One evening , as she was , according to her custom , rambling round about the courts and yards of the palace to see if she could smell any fresh meat , she heard , in a ground room , little Day crying , for his mamma was going to whip him , because he had been naughty ; and she heard , at the same time , little Morning begging pardon for her brother .
The Ogress presently knew the voice of the Queen and her children , and being quite mad that she had been thus deceived , she commanded next morning , by break of day -LRB- with a most horrible voice , which made everybody tremble -RRB- , that they should bring into the middle of the great court a large tub , which she caused to be filled with toads , vipers , snakes , and all sorts of serpents , in order to have thrown into it the Queen and her children , the clerk of the kitchen , his wife and maid ; all whom she had given orders should be brought thither with their hands tied behind them .
They were brought out accordingly , and the executioners were just going to throw them into the tub , when the King -LRB- who was not so soon expected -RRB- entered the court on horseback -LRB- for he came post -RRB- and asked , with the utmost astonishment , what was the meaning of that horrible spectacle .
No one dared to tell him , when the Ogress , all enraged to see what had happened , threw herself head foremost into the tub , and was instantly devoured by the ugly creatures she had ordered to be thrown into it for others .
The King could not but be very sorry , for she was his mother ; but he soon comforted himself with his beautiful wife and his pretty children .
CINDERELLA , OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER Once there was a gentleman who married , for his second wife , the proudest and most haughty woman that was ever seen .
She had , by a former husband , two daughters of her own humor , who were , indeed , exactly like her in all things .
He had likewise , by another wife , a young daughter , but of unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper , which she took from her mother , who was the best creature in the world .
No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother-in-law began to show herself in her true colors .
She could not bear the good qualities of this pretty girl , and the less because they made her own daughters appear the more odious .
She employed her in the meanest work of the house : she scoured the dishes , tables , etc. , and scrubbed madam 's chamber , and those of misses , her daughters ; she lay up in a sorry garret , upon a wretched straw bed , while her sisters lay in fine rooms , with floors all inlaid , upon beds of the very newest fashion , and where they had looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at their full length from head to foot .
The poor girl bore all patiently , and dared not tell her father , who would have rattled her off ; for his wife governed him entirely .
When she had done her work , she used to go into the chimney-corner , and sit down among cinders and ashes , which made her commonly be called Cinderwench ; but the youngest , who was not so rude and uncivil as the eldest , called her Cinderella .
However , Cinderella , notwithstanding her mean apparel , was a hundred times handsomer than her sisters , though they were always dressed very richly .
It happened that the King 's son gave a ball , and invited all persons of fashion to it .
Our young misses were also invited , for they cut a very grand figure among the quality .
They were mightily delighted at this invitation , and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns , petticoats , and head-clothes as might become them .
This was a new trouble to Cinderella ; for it was she who ironed her sisters ' linen , and plaited their ruffles ; they talked all day long of nothing but how they should be dressed .
`` For my part , '' said the eldest , `` I will wear my red velvet suit with French trimming . ''
`` And I , '' said the youngest , `` shall have my usual petticoat ; but then , to make amends for that , I will put on my gold-flowered manteau , and my diamond stomacher , which is far from being the most ordinary one in the world . ''
They sent for the best tire-woman they could get to make up their head-dresses and adjust their double pinners , and they had their red brushes and patches from Mademoiselle de la Poche .
Cinderella was likewise called up to them to be consulted in all these matters , for she had excellent notions , and advised them always for the best , nay , and offered her services to dress their heads , which they were very willing she should do .
As she was doing this , they said to her : `` Cinderella , would you not be glad to go to the ball ? ''
`` Alas ! ''
said she , `` you only jeer me ; it is not for such as I am to go thither . ''
`` Thou art in the right of it , '' replied they ; `` it would make the people laugh to see a Cinderwench at a ball . ''
Anyone but Cinderella would have dressed their heads awry , but she was very good , and dressed them perfectly well They were almost two days without eating , so much were they transported with joy .
They broke above a dozen laces in trying to be laced up close , that they might have a fine slender shape , and they were continually at their looking-glass .
At last the happy day came ; they went to Court , and Cinderella followed them with her eyes as long as she could , and when she had lost sight of them , she fell a-crying .
Her godmother , who saw her all in tears , asked her what was the matter .
`` I wish I could -- I wish I could -- '' ; she was not able to speak the rest , being interrupted by her tears and sobbing .
This godmother of hers , who was a fairy , said to her , `` Thou wishest thou couldst go to the ball ; is it not so ? ''
`` Y -- es , '' cried Cinderella , with a great sigh .
`` Well , '' said her godmother , `` be but a good girl , and I will contrive that thou shalt go . ''
Then she took her into her chamber , and said to her , `` Run into the garden , and bring me a pumpkin . ''
Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get , and brought it to her godmother , not being able to imagine how this pumpkin could make her go to the ball .
Her godmother scooped out all the inside of it , having left nothing but the rind ; which done , she struck it with her wand , and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine coach , gilded all over with gold .
She then went to look into her mouse-trap , where she found six mice , all alive , and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor , when , giving each mouse , as it went out , a little tap with her wand , the mouse was that moment turned into a fine horse , which altogether made a very fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray .
Being at a loss for a coachman , `` I will go and see , '' says Cinderella , `` if there is never a rat in the rat-trap -- we may make a coachman of him . ''
`` Thou art in the right , '' replied her godmother ; `` go and look . ''
Cinderella brought the trap to her , and in it there were three huge rats .
The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest beard , and , having touched him with her wand , he was turned into a fat , jolly coachman , who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld .
After that , she said to her : `` Go again into the garden , and you will find six lizards behind the watering-pot , bring them to me . ''
She had no sooner done so but her godmother turned them into six footmen , who skipped up immediately behind the coach , with their liveries all bedaubed with gold and silver , and clung as close behind each other as if they had done nothing else their whole lives .
The Fairy then said to Cinderella : `` Well , you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with ; are you not pleased with it ? ''
`` Oh !
yes , '' cried she ; `` but must I go thither as I am , in these nasty rags ? ''
Her godmother only just touched her with her wand , and , at the same instant , her clothes were turned into cloth of gold and silver , all beset with jewels .
This done , she gave her a pair of glass slippers , the prettiest in the whole world .
Being thus decked out , she got up into her coach ; but her godmother , above all things , commanded her not to stay till after midnight , telling her , at the same time , that if she stayed one moment longer , the coach would be a pumpkin again , her horses mice , her coachman a rat , her footmen lizards , and her clothes become just as they were before .
She promised her godmother she would not fail of leaving the ball before midnight ; and then away she drives , scarce able to contain herself for joy .
The King 's son who was told that a great princess , whom nobody knew , was come , ran out to receive her ; he gave her his hand as she alighted out of the coach , and led her into the ball , among all the company .
There was immediately a profound silence , they left off dancing , and the violins ceased to play , so attentive was everyone to contemplate the singular beauties of the unknown new-comer .
Nothing was then heard but a confused noise of : `` Ha !
how handsome she is !
Ha !
how handsome she is ! ''
The King himself , old as he was , could not help watching her , and telling the Queen softly that it was a long time since he had seen so beautiful and lovely a creature .
All the ladies were busied in considering her clothes and headdress , that they might have some made next day after the same pattern , provided they could meet with such fine material and as able hands to make them .
The King 's son conducted her to the most honorable seat , and afterward took her out to dance with him ; she danced so very gracefully that they all more and more admired her .
A fine collation was served up , whereof the young prince ate not a morsel , so intently was he busied in gazing on her .
She went and sat down by her sisters , showing them a thousand civilities , giving them part of the oranges and citrons which the Prince had presented her with , which very much surprised them , for they did not know her .
While Cinderella was thus amusing her sisters , she heard the clock strike eleven and three-quarters , whereupon she immediately made a courtesy to the company and hasted away as fast as she could .
When she got home she ran to seek out her godmother , and , after having thanked her , she said she could not but heartily wish she might go next day to the ball , because the King 's son had desired her .
As she was eagerly telling her godmother whatever had passed at the ball , her two sisters knocked at the door , which Cinderella ran and opened .
`` How long you have stayed ! ''
cried she , gaping , rubbing her eyes and stretching herself as if she had been just waked out of her sleep ; she had not , however , any manner of inclination to sleep since they went from home .
`` If thou hadst been at the ball , '' said one of her sisters , `` thou wouldst not have been tired with it .
There came thither the finest princess , the most beautiful ever was seen with mortal eyes ; she showed us a thousand civilities , and gave us oranges and citrons . ''
Cinderella seemed very indifferent in the matter ; indeed , she asked them the name of that princess ; but they told her they did not know it , and that the King 's son was very uneasy on her account and would give all the world to know who she was .
At this Cinderella , smiling , replied : `` She must , then , be very beautiful indeed ; how happy you have been !
Could not I see her ?
Ah !
dear Miss Charlotte , do lend me your yellow suit of clothes which you wear every day . ''
`` Ay , to be sure ! ''
cried Miss Charlotte ; `` lend my clothes to such a dirty Cinderwench as thou art !
I should be a fool . ''
Cinderella , indeed , expected well such answer , and was very glad of the refusal ; for she would have been sadly put to it if her sister had lent her what she asked for jestingly .
The next day the two sisters were at the ball , and so was Cinderella , but dressed more magnificently than before .
The King 's son was always by her , and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her ; to whom all this was so far from being tiresome that she quite forgot what her godmother had recommended to her ; so that she , at last , counted the clock striking twelve when she took it to be no more than eleven ; she then rose up and fled , as nimble as a deer .
The Prince followed , but could not overtake her .
She left behind one of her glass slippers , which the Prince took up most carefully .
She got home but quite out of breath , and in her nasty old clothes , having nothing left her of all her finery but one of the little slippers , fellow to that she dropped .
The guards at the palace gate were asked : If they had not seen a princess go out .
Who said : They had seen nobody go out but a young girl , very meanly dressed , and who had more the air of a poor country wench than a gentlewoman .
When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them : If they had been well diverted , and if the fine lady had been there .
They told her : Yes , but that she hurried away immediately when it struck twelve , and with so much haste that she dropped one of her little glass slippers , the prettiest in the world , which the King 's son had taken up ; that he had done nothing but look at her all the time at the ball , and that most certainly he was very much in love with the beautiful person who owned the glass slipper .
What they said was very true ; for a few days after the King 's son caused it to be proclaimed , by sound of trumpet , that he would marry her whose foot the slipper would just fit .
They whom he employed began to try it upon the princesses , then the duchesses and all the Court , but in vain ; it was brought to the two sisters , who did all they possibly could to thrust their foot into the slipper , but they could not effect it .
Cinderella , who saw all this , and knew her slipper , said to them , laughing : `` Let me see if it will not fit me . ''
Her sisters burst out a-laughing , and began to banter her .
The gentleman who was sent to try the slipper looked earnestly at Cinderella , and , finding her very handsome , said : It was but just that she should try , and that he had orders to let everyone make trial .
He obliged Cinderella to sit down , and , putting the slipper to her foot , he found it went on very easily , and fitted her as if it had been made of wax .
The astonishment her two sisters were in was excessively great , but still abundantly greater when Cinderella pulled out of her pocket the other slipper , and put it on her foot .
Thereupon , in came her godmother , who , having touched with her wand Cinderella 's clothes , made them richer and more magnificent than any of those she had before .
And now her two sisters found her to be that fine , beautiful lady whom they had seen at the ball .
They threw themselves at her feet to beg pardon for all the ill-treatment they had made her undergo .
Cinderella took them up , and , as she embraced them , cried : That she forgave them with all her heart , and desired them always to love her .
She was conducted to the young prince , dressed as she was ; he thought her more charming than ever , and , a few days after , married her .
Cinderella , who was no less good than beautiful , gave her two sisters lodgings in the palace , and that very same day matched them with two great lords of the Court .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
ALADDIN AND THE WONDERFUL LAMP There once lived a poor tailor , who had a son called Aladdin , a careless , idle boy who would do nothing but play ball all day long in the streets with little idle boys like himself .
This so grieved the father that he died ; yet , in spite of his mother 's tears and prayers , Aladdin did not mend his ways .
One day , when he was playing in the streets as usual , a stranger asked him his age , and if he was not the son of Mustapha the tailor .
`` I am , sir , '' replied Aladdin ; `` but he died a long while ago . ''
On this the stranger , who was a famous African magician , fell on his neck and kissed him , saying , `` I am your uncle , and knew you from your likeness to my brother .
Go to your mother and tell her I am coming . ''
Aladdin ran home and told his mother of his newly found uncle .
`` Indeed , child , '' she said , `` your father had a brother , but I always thought he was dead . ''
However , she prepared supper , and bade Aladdin seek his uncle , who came laden with wine and fruit .
He presently fell down and kissed the place where Mustapha used to sit , bidding Aladdin 's mother not to be surprised at not having seen him before , as he had been forty years out of the country .
He then turned to Aladdin , and asked him his trade , at which the boy hung his head , while his mother burst into tears .
On learning that Aladdin was idle and would learn no trade , he offered to take a shop for him and stock it with merchandise .
Next day he bought Aladdin a fine suit of clothes and took him all over the city , showing him the sights , and brought him home at nightfall to his mother , who was overjoyed to see her son so fine .
The next day the magician led Aladdin into some beautiful gardens a long way outside the city gates .
They sat down by a fountain and the magician pulled a cake from his girdle , which he divided between them .
They then journeyed onward till they almost reached the mountains .
Aladdin was so tired that he begged to go back , but the magician beguiled him with pleasant stories , and led him on in spite of himself .
At last they came to two mountains divided by a narrow valley .
`` We will go no farther , '' said the false uncle .
`` I will show you something wonderful ; only do you gather up sticks while I kindle a fire . ''
When it was lit the magician threw on it a powder he had about him , at the same time saying some magical words .
The earth trembled a little and opened in front of them , disclosing a square flat stone with a brass ring in the middle to raise it by .
Aladdin tried to run away , but the magician caught him and gave him a blow that knocked him down .
`` What have I done , uncle ? ''
he said piteously ; whereupon the magician said more kindly : `` Fear nothing , but obey me .
Beneath this stone lies a treasure which is to be yours , and no one else may touch it , so you must do exactly as I tell you . ''
At the word treasure Aladdin forgot his fears , and grasped the ring as he was told , saying the names of his father and grandfather .
The stone came up quite easily , and some steps appeared .
`` Go down , '' said the magician ; `` at the foot of those steps you will find an open door leading into three large halls .
Tuck up your gown and go through them without touching anything , or you will die instantly .
These halls lead into a garden of fine fruit trees .
Walk on until you come to a niche in a terrace where stands a lighted lamp .
Pour out the oil it contains , and bring it to me . ''
He drew a ring from his finger and gave it to Aladdin , bidding him prosper .
Aladdin found everything as the magician had said , gathered some fruit off the trees , and , having got the lamp , arrived at the mouth of the cave .
The magician cried out in a great hurry : `` Make haste and give me the lamp . ''
This Aladdin refused to do until he was out of the cave .
The magician flew into a terrible passion , and throwing some more powder on to the fire , he said something , and the stone rolled back into its place .
The magician left Persia for ever , which plainly showed that he was no uncle of Aladdin 's , but a cunning magician , who had read in his magic books of a wonderful lamp , which would make him the most powerful man in the world .
Though he alone knew where to find it , he could only receive it from the hand of another .
He had picked out the foolish Aladdin for this purpose , intending to get the lamp and kill him afterward .
For two days Aladdin remained in the dark , crying and lamenting .
At last he clasped his hands in prayer , and in so doing rubbed the ring , which the magician had forgotten to take from him .
Immediately an enormous and frightful genie rose out of the earth , saying : `` What wouldst thou with me ?
I am the Slave of the Ring , and will obey thee in all things . ''
Aladdin fearlessly replied : `` Deliver me from this place ! ''
whereupon the earth opened , and he found himself outside .
As soon as his eyes could bear the light he went home , but fainted on the threshold .
When he came to himself he told his mother what had passed , and showed her the lamp and the fruits he had gathered in the garden , which were , in reality , precious stones .
He then asked for some food .
`` Alas !
child , '' she said , `` I have nothing in the house , but I have spun a little cotton and will go and sell it . ''
Aladdin bade her keep her cotton , for he would sell the lamp instead .
As it was very dirty she began to rub it , that it might fetch a higher price .
Instantly a hideous genie appeared , and asked what she would have .
She fainted away , but Aladdin , snatching the lamp , said boldly : `` Fetch me something to eat ! ''
The genie returned with a silver bowl , twelve silver plates containing rich meats , two silver cups , and two bottles of wine .
Aladdin 's mother , when she came to herself , said : `` Whence comes this splendid feast ? ''
`` Ask not , but eat , '' replied Aladdin .
So they sat at breakfast till it was dinner-time , and Aladdin told his mother about the lamp .
She begged him to sell it , and have nothing to do with devils .
`` No , '' said Aladdin , `` since chance hath made us aware of its virtues , we will use it , and the ring likewise , which I shall always wear on my finger . ''
When they had eaten all the genie had brought , Aladdin sold one of the silver plates , and so on until none were left .
He then had recourse to the genie , who gave him another set of plates , and thus they lived for many years .
One day Aladdin heard an order from the Sultan proclaimed that everyone was to stay at home and close his shutters while the Princess , his daughter , went to and from the bath .
Aladdin was seized by a desire to see her face , which was very difficult , as she always went veiled .
He hid himself behind the door of the bath , and peeped through a chink .
The Princess lifted her veil as she went in , and looked so beautiful that Aladdin fell in love with her at first sight .
He went home so changed that his mother was frightened .
He told her he loved the Princess so deeply that he could not live without her , and meant to ask her in marriage of her father .
His mother , on hearing this , burst out laughing , but Aladdin at last prevailed upon her to go before the Sultan and carry his request .
She fetched a napkin and laid in it the magic fruits from the enchanted garden , which sparkled and shone like the most beautiful jewels .
She took these with her to please the Sultan , and set out , trusting in the lamp .
The Grand Vizier and the lords of council had just gone in as she entered the hall and placed herself in front of the Sultan .
He , however , took no notice of her .
She went every day for a week , and stood in the same place .
When the council broke up on the sixth day the Sultan said to his Vizier : `` I see a certain woman in the audience-chamber every day carrying something in a napkin .
Call her next time , that I may find out what she wants . ''
Next day , at a sign from the Vizier , she went up to the foot of the throne and remained kneeling till the Sultan said to her : `` Rise , good woman , and tell me what you want . ''
She hesitated , so the Sultan sent away all but the Vizier , and bade her speak frankly , promising to forgive her beforehand for anything she might say .
She then told him of her son 's violent love for the Princess .
`` I prayed him to forget her , '' she said , `` but in vain ; he threatened to do some desperate deed if I refused to go and ask your Majesty for the hand of the Princess .
Now I pray you to forgive not me alone , but my son Aladdin . ''
The Sultan asked her kindly what she had in the napkin , whereupon she unfolded the jewels and presented them .
He was thunderstruck , and turning to the Vizier said : `` What sayest thou ?
Ought I not to bestow the Princess on one who values her at such a price ? ''
The Vizier , who wanted her for his own son , begged the Sultan to withhold her for three months , in the course of which he hoped his son would contrive to make him a richer present .
The Sultan granted this , and told Aladdin 's mother that , though he consented to the marriage , she must not appear before him again for three months .
Aladdin waited patiently for nearly three months , but after two had elapsed his mother , going into the city to buy oil , found every one rejoicing , and asked what was going on .
`` Do you not know , '' was the answer , `` that the son of the Grand Vizier is to marry the Sultan 's daughter to-night ? ''
Breathless , she ran and told Aladdin , who was overwhelmed at first , but presently bethought him of the lamp .
He rubbed it , and the genie appeared , saying , `` What is thy will ? ''
Aladdin replied : `` The Sultan , as thou knowest , has broken his promise to me , and the Vizier 's son is to have the Princess .
My command is that to-night you bring hither the bride and bridegroom . ''
`` Master , I obey , '' said the genie .
Aladdin then went to his chamber , where , sure enough , at midnight the genie transported the bed containing the Vizier 's son and the Princess .
`` Take this new-married man , '' he said , `` and put him outside in the cold , and return at daybreak . ''
Whereupon the genie took the Vizier 's son out of bed , leaving Aladdin with the Princess .
`` Fear nothing , '' Aladdin said to her ; `` you are my wife , promised to me by your unjust father , and no harm shall come to you . ''
The Princess was too frightened to speak , and passed the most miserable night of her life , while Aladdin lay down beside her and slept soundly .
At the appointed hour the genie fetched in the shivering bridegroom , laid him in his place , and transported the bed back to the palace .
Presently the Sultan came to wish his daughter good-morning .
The unhappy Vizier 's son jumped up and hid himself , while the Princess would not say a word , and was very sorrowful .
The Sultan sent her mother to her , who said : `` How comes it , child , that you will not speak to your father ?
What has happened ? ''
The Princess sighed deeply , and at last told her mother how , during the night , the bed had been carried into some strange house , and what had passed there .
Her mother did not believe her in the least , but bade her rise and consider it an idle dream .
The following night exactly the same thing happened , and next morning , on the Princess 's refusal to speak , the Sultan threatened to cut off her head .
She then confessed all , bidding him to ask the Vizier 's son if it were not so .
The Sultan told the Vizier to ask his son , who owned the truth , adding that , dearly as he loved the Princess , he had rather die than go through another such fearful night , and wished to be separated from her .
His wish was granted , and there was an end to feasting and rejoicing .
When the three months were over , Aladdin sent his mother to remind the Sultan of his promise .
She stood in the same place as before , and the Sultan , who had forgotten Aladdin , at once remembered him , and sent for her .
On seeing her poverty the Sultan felt less inclined than ever to keep his word , and asked his Vizier 's advice , who counselled him to set so high a value on the Princess that no man living could come up to it .
The Sultan then turned to Aladdin 's mother , saying : `` Good woman , a Sultan must remember his promises , and I will remember mine , but your son must first send me forty basins of gold brimful of jewels , carried by forty black slaves , led by as many white ones , splendidly dressed .
Tell him that I await his answer . ''
The mother of Aladdin bowed low and went home , thinking all was lost .
She gave Aladdin the message , adding : `` He may wait long enough for your answer ! ''
`` Not so long , mother , as you think , '' her son replied .
`` I would do a great deal more than that for the Princess . ''
He summoned the genie , and in a few moments the eighty slaves arrived , and filled up the small house and garden .
Aladdin made them set out to the palace , two and two , followed by his mother .
They were so richly dressed , with such splendid jewels in their girdles , that everyone crowded to see them and the basins of gold they carried on their heads .
They entered the palace , and , after kneeling before the Sultan , stood in a half-circle round the throne with their arms crossed , while Aladdin 's mother presented them to the Sultan .
He hesitated no longer , but said : `` Good woman , return and tell your son that I wait for him with open arms . ''
She lost no time in telling Aladdin , bidding him make haste .
But Aladdin first called the genie .
`` I want a scented bath , '' he said , `` a richly embroidered habit , a horse surpassing the Sultan 's , and twenty slaves to attend me .
Besides this , six slaves , beautifully dressed , to wait on my mother ; and lastly , ten thousand pieces of gold in ten purses . ''
No sooner said than done .
Aladdin mounted his horse and passed through the streets , the slaves strewing gold as they went .
Those who had played with him in his childhood knew him not , he had grown so handsome .
When the Sultan saw him he came down from his throne , embraced him , and led him into a hall where a feast was spread , intending to marry him to the Princess that very day .
But Aladdin refused , saying , `` I must build a palace fit for her , '' and took his leave .
Once home , he said to the genie : `` Build me a palace of the finest marble , set with jasper , agate , and other precious stones .
In the middle you shall build me a large hall with a dome , its four walls of massy gold and silver , each having six windows , whose lattices , all except one which is to be left unfinished , must be set with diamonds and rubies .
There must be stables and horses and grooms and slaves ; go and see about it ! ''
The palace was finished by the next day , and the genie carried him there and showed him all his orders faithfully carried out , even to the laying of a velvet carpet from Aladdin 's palace to the Sultan 's .
Aladdin 's mother then dressed herself carefully , and walked to the palace with her slaves , while he followed her on horseback .
The Sultan sent musicians with trumpets and cymbals to meet them , so that the air resounded with music and cheers .
She was taken to the Princess , who saluted her and treated her with great honor .
At night the Princess said good-by to her father , and set out on the carpet for Aladdin 's palace , with his mother at her side , and followed by the hundred slaves .
She was charmed at the sight of Aladdin , who ran to receive her .
`` Princess , '' he said , `` blame your beauty for my boldness if I have displeased you . ''
She told him that , having seen him , she willingly obeyed her father in this matter .
After the wedding had taken place Aladdin led her into the hall , where a feast was spread , and she supped with him , after which they danced till midnight .
Next day Aladdin invited the Sultan to see the palace .
On entering the hall with the four-and-twenty windows , with their rubies , diamonds , and emeralds , he cried : `` It is a world 's wonder !
There is only one thing that surprises me .
Was it by accident that one window was left unfinished ? ''
`` No , sir , by design , '' returned Aladdin .
`` I wished your Majesty to have the glory of finishing this palace . ''
The Sultan was pleased , and sent for the best jewelers in the city .
He showed them the unfinished window , and bade them fit it up like the others .
`` Sir , '' replied their spokesman , `` we can not find jewels enough . ''
The Sultan had his own fetched , which they soon used , but to no purpose , for in a month 's time the work was not half done .
Aladdin , knowing that their task was vain , bade them undo their work and carry the jewels back , and the genie finished the window at his command .
The Sultan was surprised to receive his jewels again , and visited Aladdin , who showed him the window finished .
The Sultan embraced him , the envious Vizier meanwhile hinting that it was the work of enchantment .
Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing .
He was made captain of the Sultan 's armies , and won several battles for him , but remained modest and courteous as before , and lived thus in peace and content for several years .
But far away in Africa the magician remembered Aladdin , and by his magic arts discovered that Aladdin , instead of perishing miserably in the cave , had escaped , and had married a princess , with whom he was living in great honor and wealth .
He knew that the poor tailor 's son could only have accomplished this by means of the lamp , and traveled night and day until he reached the capital of China , bent on Aladdin 's ruin .
As he passed through the town he heard people talking everywhere about a marvellous palace .
`` Forgive my ignorance , '' he asked , `` what is this palace you speak Of ? ''
`` Have you not heard of Prince Aladdin 's palace , '' was the reply , `` the greatest wonder of the world ?
I will direct you if you have a mind to see it . ''
The magician thanked him who spoke , and having seen the palace , knew that it had been raised by the Genie of the Lamp , and became half mad with rage .
He determined to get hold of the lamp , and again plunge Aladdin into the deepest poverty .
Unluckily , Aladdin had gone a-hunting for eight days , which gave the magician plenty of time .
He bought a dozen copper lamps , put them into a basket , and went to the palace , crying : `` New lamps for old ! ''
followed by a jeering crowd .
The Princess , sitting in the hall of four-and-twenty windows , sent a slave to find out what the noise was about , who came back laughing , so that the Princess scolded her .
`` Madam , '' replied the slave , `` who can help laughing to see an old fool offering to exchange fine new lamps for old ones ? ''
Another slave , hearing this , said : `` There is an old one on the cornice there which he can have . ''
Now this was the magic lamp , which Aladdin had left there , as he could not take it out hunting with him .
The Princess , not knowing its value , laughingly bade the slave take it and make the exchange .
She went and said to the magician : `` Give me a new lamp for this . ''
He snatched it and bade the slave take her choice , amid the jeers of the crowd .
Little he cared , but left off crying his lamps , and went out of the city gates to a lonely place , where he remained till nightfall , when he pulled out the lamp and rubbed it .
The genie appeared , and at the magician 's command carried him , together with the palace and the Princess in it , to a lonely place in Africa .
Next morning the Sultan looked out of the window toward Aladdin 's palace and rubbed his eyes , for it was gone .
He sent for the Vizier and asked what had become of the palace .
The Vizier looked out too , and was lost in astonishment .
He again put it down to enchantment , and this time the Sultan believed him , and sent thirty men on horseback to fetch Aladdin in chains .
They met him riding home , bound him , and forced him to go with them on foot .
The people , however , who loved him , followed , armed , to see that he came to no harm .
He was carried before the Sultan , who ordered the executioner to cut off his head .
The executioner made Aladdin kneel down , bandaged his eyes , and raised his scimitar to strike .
At that instant the Vizier , who saw that the crowd had forced their way into the courtyard and were scaling the walls to rescue Aladdin , called to the executioner to stay his hand .
The people , indeed , looked so threatening that the Sultan gave way and ordered Aladdin to be unbound , and pardoned him in the sight of the crowd .
Aladdin now begged to know what he had done .
`` False wretch ! ''
said the Sultan , `` come thither , '' and showed him from the window the place where his palace had stood .
Aladdin was so amazed that he could not say a word .
`` Where is my palace and my daughter ? ''
demanded the Sultan .
`` For the first I am not so deeply concerned , but my daughter I must have , and you must find her or lose your head . ''
Aladdin begged for forty days in which to find her , promising , if he failed , to return and suffer death at the Sultan 's pleasure .
His prayer was granted , and he went forth sadly from the Sultan 's presence .
For three days he wandered about like a madman , asking everyone what had become of his palace , but they only laughed and pitied him .
He came to the banks of a river , and knelt down to say his prayers before throwing himself in .
In so doing he rubbed the magic ring he still wore .
The genie he had seen in the cave appeared , and asked his will .
`` Save my life , genie , '' said Aladdin , `` bring my palace back . ''
`` That is not in my power , '' said the genie ; `` I am only the Slave of the Ring ; you must ask him of the lamp . ''
`` Even so , '' said Aladdin , `` but thou canst take me to the palace , and set me down under my dear wife 's window . ''
He at once found himself in Africa , under the window of the Princess , and fell asleep out of sheer weariness .
He was awakened by the singing of the birds , and his heart was lighter .
He saw plainly that all his misfortunes were owing to the loss of the lamp , and vainly wondered who had robbed him of it .
That morning the Princess rose earlier than she had done since she had been carried into Africa by the magician , whose company she was forced to endure once a day .
She , however , treated him so harshly that he dared not live there altogether .
As she was dressing , one of her women looked out and saw Aladdin .
The Princess ran and opened the window , and at the noise she made Aladdin looked up .
She called to him to come to her , and great was the joy of these lovers at seeing each other again .
After he had kissed her Aladdin said : `` I beg of you , Princess , in God 's name , before we speak of anything else , for your own sake and mine , tell me that has become of an old lamp I left on the cornice in the hall of four-and-twenty windows , when I went a-hunting . ''
`` Alas ! ''
she said , `` I am the innocent cause of our sorrows , '' and told him of the exchange of the lamp .
`` Now I know , '' cried Aladdin , `` that we have to thank the African magician for this !
Where is the lamp ? ''
`` He carries it about with him , '' said the Princess .
`` I know , for he pulled it out of his breast to show me .
He wishes me to break my faith with you and marry him , saying that you were beheaded by my father 's command .
He is for ever speaking ill of you but I only reply by my tears .
If I persist , I doubt not but he will use violence . ''
Aladdin comforted her , and left her for a while .
He changed clothes with the first person he met in the town , and having bought a certain powder , returned to the Princess , who let him in by a little side door .
`` Put on your most beautiful dress , '' he said to her `` and receive the magician with smiles , leading him to believe that you have forgotten me .
Invite him to sup with you , and say you wish to taste the wine of his country .
He will go for some and while he is gone I will tell you what to do . ''
She listened carefully to Aladdin and when he left she arrayed herself gaily for the first time since she left China .
She put on a girdle and head-dress of diamonds , and , seeing in a glass that she was more beautiful than ever , received the magician , saying , to his great amazement : `` I have made up my mind that Aladdin is dead , and that all my tears will not bring him back to me , so I am resolved to mourn no more , and have therefore invited you to sup with me ; but I am tired of the wines of China , and would fain taste those of Africa . ''
The magician flew to his cellar , and the Princess put the powder Aladdin had given her in her cup .
When he returned she asked him to drink her health in the wine of Africa , handing him her cup in exchange for his , as a sign she was reconciled to him .
Before drinking the magician made her a speech in praise of her beauty , but the Princess cut him short , saying : `` Let us drink first , and you shall say what you will afterward . ''
She set her cup to her lips and kept it there , while the magician drained his to the dregs and fell back lifeless .
The Princess then opened the door to Aladdin , and flung her arms round his neck ; but Aladdin put her away , bidding her leave him , as he had more to do .
He then went to the dead magician , took the lamp out of his vest , and bade the genie carry the palace and all in it back to China .
This was done , and the Princess in her chamber only felt two little shocks , and little thought she was at home again .
The Sultan , who was sitting in his closet , mourning for his lost daughter , happened to look up , and rubbed his eyes , for there stood the palace as before !
He hastened thither , and Aladdin received him in the hall of the four-and-twenty windows , with the Princess at his side .
Aladdin told him what had happened , and showed him the dead body of the magician , that he might believe .
A ten days ' feast was proclaimed , and it seemed as if Aladdin might now live the rest of his life in peace ; but it was not to be .
The African magician had a younger brother , who was , if possible , more wicked and more cunning than himself .
He traveled to China to avenge his brother 's death , and went to visit a pious woman called Fatima , thinking she might be of use to him .
He entered her cell and clapped a dagger to her breast , telling her to rise and do his bidding on pain of death .
He changed clothes with her , colored his face like hers , put on her veil , and murdered her , that she might tell no tales .
Then he went toward the palace of Aladdin , and all the people , thinking he was the holy woman , gathered round him , kissing his hands and begging his blessing .
When he got to the palace there was such a noise going on round him that the Princess bade her slave look out of the window and ask what was the matter .
The slave said it was the holy woman , curing people by her touch of their ailments , whereupon the Princess , who had long desired to see Fatima , sent for her .
On coming to the Princess the magician offered up a prayer for her health and prosperity .
When he had done the Princess made him sit by her , and begged him to stay with her always .
The false Fatima , who wished for nothing better , consented , but kept his veil down for fear of discovery .
The Princess showed him the hall , and asked him what he thought of it .
`` It is truly beautiful , '' said the false Fatima .
`` In my mind it wants but one thing . ''
`` And what is that ? ''
said the Princess .
`` If only a roc 's egg , '' replied he , `` were hung up from the middle of this dome , it would be the wonder of the world . ''
After this the Princess could think of nothing but the roc 's egg , and when Aladdin returned from hunting he found her in a very ill humor .
He begged to know what was amiss , and she told him that all her pleasure in the hall was spoiled for the want of a roc 's egg hanging from the dome .
`` If that is all , '' replied Aladdin , `` you shall soon be happy . ''
He left her and rubbed the lamp , and when the genie appeared commanded him to bring a roc 's egg .
The genie gave such a loud and terrible shriek that the hall shook .
`` Wretch ! ''
he cried , `` is it not enough that I have done everything for you , but you must command me to bring my master and hang him up in the midst of this dome ?
You and your wife and your palace deserve to be burnt to ashes , but that this request does not come from you , but from the brother of the African magician , whom you destroyed .
He is now in your palace disguised as the holy woman -- whom he murdered .
He it was who put that wish into your wife 's head .
Take care of yourself , for he means to kill you . ''
So saying , the genie disappeared .
Aladdin went back to the Princess , saying his head ached , and requesting that the holy Fatima should be fetched to lay her hands on it .
But when the magician came near , Aladdin , seizing his dagger , pierced him to the heart .
`` What have you done ? ''
cried the Princess .
`` You have killed the holy woman ! ''
`` Not so , '' replied Aladdin , `` but a wicked magician , '' and told her of how she had been deceived .
After this Aladdin and his wife lived in peace .
He succeeded the Sultan when he died , and reigned for many years , leaving behind him a long line of kings .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
THE TALE OF A YOUTH WHO SET OUT TO LEARN WHAT FEAR WAS A father had two sons , of whom the eldest was clever and bright , and always knew what he was about ; but the youngest was stupid , and could n't learn or understand anything .
So much so that those who saw him exclaimed : `` What a burden he 'll be to his father ! ''
Now when there was anything to be done , the eldest had always to do it ; but if something was required later or in the night-time , and the way led through the churchyard or some such ghostly place , he always replied : `` Oh !
no , father : nothing will induce me to go there , it makes me shudder ! ''
for he was afraid .
Or , when they sat of an evening around the fire telling stories which made one 's flesh creep , the listeners sometimes said : `` Oh !
it makes one shudder , '' the youngest sat in a corner , heard the exclamation , and could not understand what it meant .
`` They are always saying it makes one shudder !
it makes one shudder !
Nothing makes me shudder .
It 's probably an art quite beyond me . ''
Now it happened that his father said to him one day : `` Hearken , you there in the corner ; you are growing big and strong , and you must learn to earn your own bread .
Look at your brother , what pains he takes ; but all the money I 've spent on your education is thrown away . ''
`` My dear father , '' he replied , `` I will gladly learn -- in fact , if it were possible I should like to learn to shudder ; I do n't understand that a bit yet . ''
The eldest laughed when he heard this , and thought to himself : `` Good heavens !
what a ninny my brother is !
he 'll never come to any good ; as the twig is bent , so is the tree inclined . ''
The father sighed , and answered him : `` You 'll soon learn to shudder ; but that wo n't help you to make a living . ''
Shortly after this , when the sexton came to pay them a visit , the father broke out to him , and told him what a bad hand his youngest son was at everything : he knew nothing and learned nothing .
`` Only think !
when I asked him how he purposed gaining a livelihood , he actually asked to be taught to shudder . ''
`` If that 's all he wants , '' said the sexton , `` I can teach him that ; just you send him to me , I 'll soon polish him up . ''
The father was quite pleased with the proposal , because he thought : `` It will be a good discipline for the youth . ''
And so the sexton took him into his house , and his duty was to toll the bell .
After a few days he woke him at midnight , and bade him rise and climb into the tower and toll .
`` Now , my friend , I 'll teach you to shudder , '' thought he .
He stole forth secretly in front , and when the youth was up above , and had turned round to grasp the bell-rope , he saw , standing opposite the hole of the belfry , a white figure .
`` Who 's there ? ''
he called out , but the figure gave no answer , and neither stirred nor moved .
`` Answer , '' cried the youth , `` or begone ; you have no business here at this hour of the night . ''
But the sexton remained motionless , so that the youth might think that it was a ghost .
The youth called out the second time : `` What do you want here ?
Speak if you are an honest fellow , or I 'll knock you down the stairs . ''
The sexton thought : `` He ca n't mean that in earnest , '' so gave forth no sound , and stood as though he were made of stone .
Then the youth shouted out to him the third time , and as that too had no effect , he made a dash at the spectre and knocked it down the stairs , so that it fell about ten steps and remained lying in a corner .
Thereupon he tolled the bell , went home to bed without saying a word , and fell asleep .
The sexton 's wife waited a long time for her husband , but he never appeared .
At last she became anxious , and woke the youth , and asked : `` Do n't you know where my husband is ?
He went up to the tower in front of you . ''
`` No , '' answered the youth ; `` but someone stood on the stairs up there just opposite the trap-door in the belfry , and because he would n't answer me , or go away , I took him for a rogue and knocked him down .
You 'd better go and see if it was he ; I should be much distressed if it were . ''
The wife ran and found her husband who was lying groaning in a corner , with his leg broken .
She carried him down , and then hurried with loud protestations to the youth 's father .
`` Your son has been the cause of a pretty misfortune , '' she cried ; `` he threw my husband downstairs so that he broke his leg .
Take the good-for-nothing wretch out of our house . ''
The father was horrified , hurried to the youth , and gave him a scolding .
`` What unholy pranks are these ?
The evil one must have put them into your head . ''
`` Father , '' he replied , `` only listen to me ; I am quite guiltless .
He stood there in the night , like one who meant harm .
I did n't know who it was , and warned him three times to speak or begone . ''
`` Oh ! ''
groaned the father , `` you 'll bring me nothing but misfortune ; get out of my sight , I wo n't have anything more to do with you . ''
`` Yes , father , willingly ; only wait till daylight , then I 'll set out and learn to shudder , and in that way I shall be master of an art which will gain me a living . ''
`` Learn what you will , '' said the father , `` it 's all one to me .
Here are fifty dollars for you , set forth into the wide world with them ; but see you tell no one where you come from or who your father is , for I am ashamed of you . ''
`` Yes , father , whatever you wish ; and if that 's all you ask , I can easily keep it in mind . ''
When day broke the youth put the fifty dollars into his pocket , set out on the hard high road , and kept muttering to himself : `` If I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
Just at this moment a man came by who heard the youth speaking to himself , and when they had gone on a bit and were in sight of the gallows the man said to him : `` Look !
there is the tree where seven people have been hanged , and are now learning to fly ; sit down under it and wait till nightfall , and then you 'll pretty soon learn to shudder . ''
`` If that 's all I have to do , '' answered the youth , `` it 's easily done ; but if I learn to shudder so quickly , then you shall have my fifty dollars .
Just come back to me to-morrow morning early . ''
Then the youth went to the gallows-tree and sat down underneath it , and waited for the evening ; and because he felt cold he lit himself a fire .
But at midnight it got so chill that in spite of the fire he could n't keep warm .
And as the wind blew the corpses one against the other , tossing them to and fro , he thought to himself : `` If you are perishing down here by the fire , how those poor things up there must be shaking and shivering ! ''
And because he had a tender heart , he put up a ladder , which he climbed unhooked one body after the other , and took down all the seven .
Then he stirred the fire , blew it up , and placed them all round in a circle , that they might warm themselves .
But they sat there and did not move , and the fire caught their clothes .
Then he spoke : `` Take care , or I 'll hang you up again . ''
But the dead men did not hear and let their rags go on burning .
Then he got angry , and said : `` If you are n't careful yourselves , then I ca n't help you , and I do n't mean to burn with you '' ; and he hung them up again in a row .
Then he sat down at his fire and fell asleep .
On the following morning the man came to him , and , wishing to get his fifty dollars , said : `` Now you know what it is to shudder . ''
`` No , '' he answered , `` how should I ?
Those fellows up there never opened their mouths , and were so stupid that they let those few old tatters they have on their bodies burn . ''
Then the man saw he would n't get his fifty dollars that day , and went off , saying : `` Well , I 'm blessed if I ever met such a person in my life before . ''
The youth went too on his way , and began to murmur to himself : `` Oh !
if I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
A carrier who was walking behind him heard these words , and asked him : `` Who are you '' `` I do n't know , '' said the youth .
`` Where do you hail from ? ''
`` I do n't know . ''
`` Who 's your father ? ''
`` I may n't say . ''
`` What are you constantly muttering to yourself ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
said the youth , `` I would give worlds to shudder , but no one can teach me . ''
`` Stuff and nonsense ! ''
spoke the carrier ; `` come along with me , and I 'll soon put that right . ''
The youth went with the carrier , and in the evening they reached an inn , where they were to spend the night .
Then , just as he was entering the room , he said again , quite aloud : `` Oh !
if I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
The landlord , who heard this , laughed and said : `` If that 's what you 're sighing for , you shall be given every opportunity here . ''
`` Oh !
hold your tongue ! ''
said the landlord 's wife ; `` so many people have paid for their curiosity with their lives , it were a thousand pities if those beautiful eyes were never again to behold daylight . ''
But the youth said : `` No matter how difficult , I insist on learning it ; why , that 's what I 've set out to do . ''
He left the landlord no peace till he told him that in the neighborhood stood a haunted castle , where one could easily learn to shudder if one only kept watch in it for three nights .
The King had promised the man who dared to do this thing his daughter as wife , and she was the most beautiful maiden under the sun .
There was also much treasure hid in the castle , guarded by evil spirits , which would then be free , and was sufficient to make a poor man more than rich .
Many had already gone in , but so far none had ever come out again .
So the youth went to the King and spoke : `` If I were allowed , I should much like to watch for three nights in the castle . ''
The King looked at him , and because he pleased him , he said : `` You can ask for three things , none of them living , and those you may take with you into the castle . ''
Then he answered : `` Well , I shall beg for a fire , a turning lathe , and a carving bench with the knife attached . ''
On the following day the King had everything put into the castle ; and when night drew on the youth took up his position there , lit a bright fire in one of the rooms , placed the carving bench with the knife close to it , and sat himself down on the turning lathe .
`` Oh !
if I could only shudder ! ''
he said : `` but I sha 'n' t learn it here either . ''
Toward midnight he wanted to make up the fire , and as he was blowing up a blaze he heard a shriek from a corner .
`` Ou , miou !
how cold we are ! ''
`` You fools ! ''
he cried ; `` why do you scream ?
If you are cold , come and sit at the fire and warm yourselves . ''
And as he spoke two huge black cats sprang fiercely forward and sat down , one on each side of him , and gazed wildly at him with their fiery eyes .
After a time , when they had warmed themselves , they said : `` Friend , shall we play a little game of cards ? ''
`` Why not ? ''
he replied ; `` but first let me see your paws . ''
Then they stretched out their claws .
`` Ha ! ''
said he ; `` what long nails you 've got !
Wait a minute : I must first cut them off . ''
Thereupon he seized them by the scruff of their necks , lifted them on to the carving bench , and screwed down their paws firmly .
`` After watching you narrowly , '' said he , `` I no longer feel any desire to play cards with you '' ; and with these words he struck them dead and threw them out into the water .
But when he had thus sent the two of them to their final rest , and was again about to sit down at the fire , out of every nook and corner came forth black cats and black dogs with fiery chains in such swarms that he could n't possibly get away from them .
They yelled in the most ghastly manner , jumped upon his fire , scattered it all , and tried to put it out .
He looked on quietly for a time , but when it got beyond a joke he seized his carving-knife and called out : `` Be off , you rabble rout ! ''
and let fly at them .
Some of them fled away , and the others he struck dead and threw them out into the pond below .
When he returned he blew up the sparks of the fire once more , and warmed himself .
And as he sat thus his eyes refused to keep open any longer , and a desire to sleep stole over him .
Then he looked around him and beheld in the corner a large bed .
`` The very thing , '' he said , and laid himself down in it .
But when he wished to close his eyes the bed began to move by itself , and ran all round the castle .
`` Capital , '' he said , `` only a little quicker . ''
Then the bed sped on as if drawn by six horses , over thresholds and stairs , up this way and down that .
All of a sudden -- crash , crash !
with a bound it turned over , upside down , and lay like a mountain on the top of him .
But he tossed the blankets and pillows in the air , emerged from underneath , and said : `` Now anyone who has the fancy for it may go a drive , '' lay down at his fire , and slept till daylight .
In the morning the King came , and when he beheld him lying on the ground he imagined the ghosts had been too much for him , and that he was dead .
Then he said : `` What a pity !
and such a fine fellow he was . ''
The youth heard this , got up , and said : `` It 's not come to that yet . ''
Then the King was astonished , but very glad , and asked how it had fared with him .
`` First-rate , '' he answered ; `` and now I 've survived the one night , I shall get through the other two also . ''
The landlord , when he went to him , opened his eyes wide , and said : `` Well , I never thought to see you alive again .
Have you learned now what shuddering is ? ''
`` No , '' he replied , `` it 's quite hopeless ; if someone could only tell me how to ! ''
The second night he went up again to the old castle , sat down at the fire , and began his old refrain : `` If I could only shudder ! ''
As midnight approached , a noise and din broke out , at first gentle , but gradually increasing ; then all was quiet for a minute , and at length , with a loud scream , half of a man dropped down the chimney and fell before him .
`` Hi , up there ! ''
shouted he ; `` there 's another half wanted down here , that 's not enough '' ; then the din commenced once more , there was a shrieking and a yelling , and then the other half fell down .
`` Wait a bit , '' he said ; `` I 'll stir up the fire for you . ''
When he had done this and again looked around , the two pieces had united , and a horrible-looking man sat on his seat .
`` Come , '' said the youth , `` I did n't bargain for that , the seat is mine . ''
The man tried to shove him away , but the youth would n't allow it for a moment , and , pushing him off by force , sat down in his place again .
Then more men dropped down , one after the other , who fetching nine skeleton legs and two skulls , put them up and played ninepins with them .
The youth thought he would like to play too , and said : `` Look here ; do you mind my joining the game ? ''
`` No , not if you have money . ''
`` I 've money enough , '' he replied , `` but your balls are n't round enough . ''
Then he took the skulls , placed them on his lathe , and turned them till they were round .
`` Now they 'll roll along better , '' said he , `` and houp-la !
now the fun begins . ''
He played with them and lost some of his money , but when twelve struck everything vanished before his eyes .
He lay down and slept peacefully .
The next morning the King came , anxious for news .
`` How have you got on this time ? ''
he asked .
`` I played ninepins , '' he answered , `` and lost a few pence . ''
`` Did n't you shudder then ? ''
`` No such luck , '' said he ; `` I made myself merry .
Oh !
if I only knew what it was to shudder ! ''
On the third night he sat down again on his bench , and said , in the most desponding way : `` If I could only shudder ! ''
When it got late , six big men came in carrying a coffin .
Then he cried : `` Ha !
ha !
that 's most likely my little cousin who only died a few days ago '' ; and beckoning with his finger he called out : `` Come , my small cousin , come . ''
They placed the coffin on the ground , and he approached it and took off the cover .
In it lay a dead man .
He felt his face , and it was cold as ice .
`` Wait , '' he said `` I 'll heat you up a bit , '' went to the fire , warmed his hand , and laid it on the man 's face , but the dead remained cold .
Then he lifted him out , sat down at the fire , laid him on his knee , and rubbed his arms that the blood should circulate again .
When that too had no effect it occurred to him that if two people lay together in bed they warmed each other ; so he put him into the bed , covered him up , and lay down beside him ; after a time the corpse became warm and began to move .
Then the youth said : `` Now , my little cousin , what would have happened if I had n't warmed you ? ''
But the dead man rose up and cried out : `` Now I will strangle you . ''
`` What ! ''
said he , `` is that all the thanks I get ?
You should be put straight back into your coffin , '' lifted him up , threw him in , and closed the lid .
Then the six men came and carried him out again .
`` I simply ca n't shudder , '' he said , `` and it 's clear I sha 'n' t learn it in a lifetime here . ''
Then a man entered , of more than ordinary size and of a very fearful appearance ; but he was old and had a white beard .
`` Oh !
you miserable creature , now you will soon know what it is to shudder , '' he cried , `` for you must die . ''
`` Not so quickly , '' answered the youth .
`` If I am to die , you must catch me first . ''
`` I shall soon lay hold of you , '' spoke the monster .
`` Gently , gently , do n't boast too much , I 'm as strong as you , and stronger too . ''
`` We 'll soon see , '' said the old man ; `` if you are stronger than I then I 'll let you off ; come , let 's have a try . ''
Then he led him through some dark passages to a forge , and grasping an axe he drove one of the anvils with a blow into the earth .
`` I can do better than that , '' cried the youth , and went to the other anvil .
The old man drew near him in order to watch closely , and his white beard hung right down .
The youth seized the axe , cleft the anvil open , and jammed in the old man 's beard .
`` Now I have you , '' said the youth ; `` this time it 's your turn to die . ''
Then he seized an iron rod and belabored the old man till he , whimpering , begged him to leave off , and he would give him great riches .
The youth drew out the axe and let him go .
The old man led him back to the castle and showed him in a cellar three chests of gold .
`` One of these , '' said he , `` belongs to the poor , one to the King , and the third is yours . ''
At that moment twelve struck , and the spirit vanished , leaving the youth alone in the dark .
`` I 'll surely be able to find a way out , '' said he , and groping about he at length found his way back to the room , and fell asleep at his fire .
The next morning the King came , and said : `` Well , now you 've surely learned to shudder ? ''
`` No , '' he answered ; `` what can it be ?
My dead cousin was here , and an old bearded man came , who showed me heaps of money down below there , but what shuddering is no one has told me . ''
Then the King spoke : `` You have freed the castle from its curse , and you shall marry my daughter . ''
`` That 's all charming , '' he said ; `` but I still do n't know what it is to shudder . ''
Then the gold was brought up , and the wedding was celebrated , but the young King , though he loved his wife dearly , and though he was very happy , still kept on saying : `` If I could only shudder !
if I could only shudder ! ''
At last he reduced her to despair .
Then her maid said : `` I 'll help you ; we 'll soon make him shudder . ''
So she went out to the stream that flowed through the garden , and had a pail full of little gudgeons brought to her .
At night , when the young King was asleep , his wife had to pull the clothes off him , and pour the pail full of little gudgeons over him , so that the little fish swam all about him .
Then he awoke and cried out : `` Oh !
how I shudder , how I shudder , dear wife !
Yes , now I know what shuddering is . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
RUMPELSTILTZKIN There was once upon a time a poor miller who had a very beautiful daughter .
Now it happened one day that he had an audience with the King , and in order to appear a person of some importance he told him that he had a daughter who could spin straw into gold .
`` Now that 's a talent worth having , '' said the King to the miller ; `` if your daughter is as clever as you say , bring her to my palace to-morrow , and I 'll put her to the test . ''
When the girl was brought to him he led her into a room full of straw , gave her a spinning-wheel and spindle , and said : `` Now set to work and spin all night till early dawn , and if by that time you have n't spun the straw into gold you shall die . ''
Then he closed the door behind him and left her alone inside .
So the poor miller 's daughter sat down , and did n't know what in the world she was to do .
She had n't the least idea of how to spin straw into gold , and became at last so miserable that she began to cry .
Suddenly the door opened , and in stepped a tiny little man and said : `` Good-evening , Miss Miller-maid ; why are you crying so bitterly ? ''
`` Oh ! ''
answered the girl , `` I have to spin straw into gold , and have n't a notion how it 's done . ''
`` What will you give me if I spin it for you ? ''
asked the manikin .
`` My necklace , '' replied the girl .
The little man took the necklace , sat himself down at the wheel , and whir , whir , whir , the wheel went round three times , and the bobbin was full .
Then he put on another , and whir , whir , whir , the wheel went round three times , and the second too was full ; and so it went on till the morning , when all the straw was spun away , and all the bobbins were full of gold .
As soon as the sun rose the King came , and when he perceived the gold he was astonished and delighted , but his heart only lusted more than ever after the precious metal .
He had the miller 's daughter put into another room full of straw , much bigger than the first , and bade her , if she valued her life , spin it all into gold before the following morning .
The girl did n't know what to do , and began to cry ; then the door opened as before , and the tiny little man appeared and said : `` What 'll you give me if I spin the straw into gold for you ? ''
`` The ring from my finger , '' answered the girl .
The manikin took the ring , and whir !
round went the spinning-wheel again , and when morning broke he had spun all the straw into glittering gold .
The King was pleased beyond measure at the sights but his greed for gold was still not satisfied , and he had the miller 's daughter brought into a yet bigger room full of straw , and said : `` You must spin all this away in the night ; but if you succeed this time you shall become my wife . ''
`` She 's only a miller 's daughter , it 's true , '' he thought ; `` but I could n't find a richer wife if I were to search the whole world over . ''
When the girl was alone the little man appeared for the third time , and said : `` What 'll you give me if I spin the straw for you once again ? ''
`` I 've nothing more to give , '' answered the girl .
`` Then promise me when you are Queen to give me your first child . ''
`` Who knows what may not happen before that ? ''
thought the miller 's daughter ; and besides , she saw no other way out of it , so she promised the manikin what he demanded , and he set to work once more and spun the straw into gold .
When the King came in the morning , and found everything as he had desired , he straightway made her his wife , and the miller 's daughter became a queen .
When a year had passed a beautiful son was born to her , and she thought no more of the little man , till all of a sudden one day he stepped into her room and said : `` Now give me what you promised . ''
The Queen was in a great state , and offered the little man all the riches in her kingdom if he would only leave her the child .
But the manikin said : `` No , a living creature is dearer to me than all the treasures in the world . ''
Then the Queen began to cry and sob so bitterly that the little man was sorry for her , and said : `` I 'll give you three days to guess my name , and if you find it out in that time you may keep your child . ''
Then the Queen pondered the whole night over all the names she had ever heard , and sent a messenger to scour the land , and to pick up far and near any names he could come across .
When the little man arrived on the following day she began with Kasper , Melchior , Belshazzar , and all the other names she knew , in a string , but at each one the manikin called out : `` That 's not my name . ''
The next day she sent to inquire the names of all the people in the neighborhood , and had a long list of the most uncommon and extraordinary for the little man when he made his appearance .
`` Is your name , perhaps , Sheepshanks Cruickshanks , Spindleshanks ? ''
but he always replied : `` That 's not my name . ''
On the third day the messenger returned and announced : `` I have not been able to find any new names , but as I came upon a high hill round the corner of the wood , where the foxes and hares bid each other good-night , I saw a little house , and in front of the house burned a fire , and round the fire sprang the most grotesque little man , hopping on one leg and crying : `` To-morrow I brew , to-day I bake , And then the child away I 'll take ; For little deems my royal dame That Rumpelstiltzkin is my name ! ''
You can imagine the Queen 's delight at hearing the name , and when the little man stepped in shortly afterward and asked : `` Now , my lady Queen , what 's my name ? ''
she asked first : `` Is your name Conrad ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Is your name Harry ? ''
`` No . ''
`` Is your name perhaps , Rumpelstiltzkin ? ''
`` Some demon has told you that !
some demon has told you that ! ''
screamed the little man , and in his rage drove his right foot so far into the ground that it sank in up to his waist ; then in a passion he seized the left foot with both hands and tore himself in two .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST Once upon a time , in a very far-off country , there lived a merchant who had been so fortunate in all his undertakings that he was enormously rich .
As he had , however , six sons and six daughters , he found that his money was not too much to let them all have everything they fancied , as they were accustomed to do .
But one day a most unexpected misfortune befell them .
Their house caught fire and was speedily burnt to the ground , with all the splendid furniture , the books , pictures , gold , silver , and precious goods it contained ; and this was only the beginning of their troubles .
Their father , who had until this moment prospered in all ways , suddenly lost every ship he had upon the sea , either by dint of pirates , shipwreck , or fire .
Then he heard that his clerks in distant countries , whom he trusted entirely , had proved unfaithful ; and at last from great wealth he fell into the direst poverty .
All that he had left was a little house in a desolate place at least a hundred leagues from the town in which he had lived , and to this he was forced to retreat with his children , who were in despair at the idea of leading such a different life .
Indeed , the daughters at first hoped that their friends , who had been so numerous while they were rich , would insist on their staying in their houses now they no longer possessed one .
But they soon found that they were left alone , and that their former friends even attributed their misfortunes to their own extravagance , and showed no intention of offering them any help .
So nothing was left for them but to take their departure to the cottage , which stood in the midst of a dark forest , and seemed to be the most dismal place upon the face of the earth .
As they were too poor to have any servants , the girls had to work hard , like peasants , and the sons , for their part , cultivated the fields to earn their living .
Roughly clothed , and living in the simplest way , the girls regretted unceasingly the luxuries and amusements of their former life ; only the youngest tried to be brave and cheerful .
She had been as sad as anyone when misfortune overtook her father , but , soon recovering her natural gaiety , she set to work to make the best of things , to amuse her father and brothers as well as she could , and to try to persuade her sisters to join her in dancing and singing .
But they would do nothing of the sort , and , because she was not as doleful as themselves , they declared that this miserable life was all she was fit for .
But she was really far prettier and cleverer than they were ; indeed , she was so lovely that she was always called Beauty .
After two years , when they were all beginning to get used to their new life , something happened to disturb their tranquillity .
Their father received the news that one of his ships , which he had believed to be lost , had come safely into port with a rich cargo .
All the sons and daughters at once thought that their poverty was at an end , and wanted to set out directly for the town ; but their father , who was more prudent , begged them to wait a little , and , though it was harvest time , and he could ill be spared , determined to go himself first , to make inquiries .
Only the youngest daughter had any doubt but that they would soon again be as rich as they were before , or at least rich enough to live comfortably in some town where they would find amusement and gay companions once more .
So they all loaded their father with commissions for jewels and dresses which it would have taken a fortune to buy ; only Beauty , feeling sure that it was of no use , did not ask for anything .
Her father , noticing her silence , said : `` And what shall I bring for you , Beauty ? ''
`` The only thing I wish for is to see you come home safely , '' she answered .
But this only vexed her sisters , who fancied she was blaming them for having asked for such costly things .
Her father , however , was pleased , but as he thought that at her age she certainly ought to like pretty presents , he told her to choose something .
`` Well , dear father , '' she said , `` as you insist upon it , I beg that you will bring me a rose .
I have not seen one since we came here , and I love them so much . ''
So the merchant set out and reached the town as quickly as possible , but only to find that his former companions , believing him to be dead , had divided between them the goods which the ship had brought ; and after six months of trouble and expense he found himself as poor as when he started , having been able to recover only just enough to pay the cost of his journey .
To make matters worse , he was obliged to leave the town in the most terrible weather , so that by the time he was within a few leagues of his home he was almost exhausted with cold and fatigue .
Though he knew it would take some hours to get through the forest , he was so anxious to be at his journey 's end that he resolved to go on ; but night overtook him , and the deep snow and bitter frost made it impossible for his horse to carry him any further .
Not a house was to be seen ; the only shelter he could get was the hollow trunk of a great tree , and there he crouched all the night which seemed to him the longest he had ever known .
In spite of his weariness the howling of the wolves kept him awake , and even when at last the day broke he was not much better off , for the falling snow had covered up every path , and he did not know which way to turn .
At length he made out some sort of track , and though at the beginning it was so rough and slippery that he fell down more than once , it presently became easier , and led him into an avenue of trees which ended in a splendid castle .
It seemed to the merchant very strange that no snow had fallen in the avenue , which was entirely composed of orange trees , covered with flowers and fruit .
When he reached the first court of the castle he saw before him a flight of agate steps , and went up them , and passed through several splendidly furnished rooms .
The pleasant warmth of the air revived him , and he felt very hungry ; but there seemed to be nobody in all this vast and splendid palace whom he could ask to give him something to eat .
Deep silence reigned everywhere , and at last , tired of roaming through empty rooms and galleries , he stopped in a room smaller than the rest , where a clear fire was burning and a couch was drawn up closely to it .
Thinking that this must be prepared for someone who was expected , he sat down to wait till he should come , and very soon fell into a sweet sleep .
When his extreme hunger wakened him after several hours , he was still alone ; but a little table , upon which was a good dinner , had been drawn up close to him , and , as he had eaten nothing for twenty-four hours , he lost no time in beginning his meal , hoping that he might soon have an opportunity of thanking his considerate entertainer , whoever it might be .
But no one appeared , and even after another long sleep , from which he awoke completely refreshed , there was no sign of anybody , though a fresh meal of dainty cakes and fruit was prepared upon the little table at his elbow .
Being naturally timid , the silence began to terrify him , and he resolved to search once more through all the rooms ; but it was of no use .
Not even a servant was to be seen ; there was no sign of life in the palace !
He began to wonder what he should do , and to amuse himself by pretending that all the treasures he saw were his own , and considering how he would divide them among his children .
Then he went down into the garden , and though it was winter everywhere else , here the sun shone , and the birds sang , and the flowers bloomed , and the air was soft and sweet .
The merchant , in ecstacies with all he saw and heard , said to himself : `` All this must be meant for me .
I will go this minute and bring my children to share all these delights . ''
In spite of being so cold and weary when he reached the castle , he had taken his horse to the stable and fed it .
Now he thought he would saddle it for his homeward journey , and he turned down the path which led to the stable .
This path had a hedge of roses on each side of it , and the merchant thought he had never seen or smelt such exquisite flowers .
They reminded him of his promise to Beauty , and he stopped and had just gathered one to take to her when he was startled by a strange noise behind him .
Turning round , he saw a frightful Beast , which seemed to be very angry and said , in a terrible voice : `` Who told you that you might gather my roses ?
Was it not enough that I allowed you to be in my palace and was kind to you ?
This is the way you show your gratitude , by stealing my flowers !
But your insolence shall not go unpunished . ''
The merchant , terrified by these furious words , dropped the fatal rose , and , throwing himself on his knees , cried : `` Pardon me , noble sir .
I am truly grateful to you for your hospitality , which was so magnificent that I could not imagine that you would be offended by my taking such a little thing as a rose . ''
But the Beast 's anger was not lessened by this speech .
`` You are very ready with excuses and flattery , '' he cried ; `` but that will not save you from the death you deserve . ''
`` Alas ! ''
thought the merchant , `` if my daughter could only know what danger her rose has brought me into ! ''
And in despair he began to tell the Beast all his misfortunes , and the reason of his journey , not forgetting to mention Beauty 's request .
`` A king 's ransom would hardly have procured all that my other daughters asked . ''
he said : `` but I thought that I might at least take Beauty her rose .
I beg you to forgive me , for you see I meant no harm . ''
The Beast considered for a moment , and then he said , in a less furious tone : `` I will forgive you on one condition -- that is , that you will give me one of your daughters . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cried the merchant , `` if I were cruel enough to buy my own life at the expense of one of my children 's , what excuse could I invent to bring her here ? ''
`` No excuse would be necessary , '' answered the Beast .
`` If she comes at all she must come willingly .
On no other condition will I have her .
See if any one of them is courageous enough , and loves you well enough to come and save your life .
You seem to be an honest man , so I will trust you to go home .
I give you a month to see if either of your daughters will come back with you and stay here , to let you go free .
If neither of them is willing , you must come alone , after bidding them good-by for ever , for then you will belong to me .
And do not imagine that you can hide from me , for if you fail to keep your word I will come and fetch you ! ''
added the Beast grimly .
The merchant accepted this proposal , though he did not really think any of his daughters could be persuaded to come .
He promised to return at the time appointed , and then , anxious to escape from the presence of the Beast , he asked permission to set off at once .
But the Beast answered that he could not go until next day .
`` Then you will find a horse ready for you , '' he said .
`` Now go and eat your supper , and await my orders . ''
The poor merchant , more dead than alive , went back to his room , where the most delicious supper was already served on the little table which was drawn up before a blazing fire .
But he was too terrified to eat , and only tasted a few of the dishes , for fear the Beast should be angry if he did not obey his orders .
When he had finished he heard a great noise in the next room , which he knew meant that the Beast was coming .
As he could do nothing to escape his visit , the only thing that remained was to seem as little afraid as possible ; so when the Beast appeared and asked roughly if he had supped well , the merchant answered humbly that he had , thanks to his host 's kindness .
Then the Beast warned him to remember their agreement , and to prepare his daughter exactly for what she had to expect .
`` Do not get up to-morrow , '' he added , `` until you see the sun and hear a golden bell ring .
Then you will find your breakfast waiting for you here , and the horse you are to ride will be ready in the courtyard .
He will also bring you back again when you come with your daughter a month hence .
Farewell .
Take a rose to Beauty , and remember your promise ! ''
The merchant was only too glad when the Beast went away , and though he could not sleep for sadness , he lay down until the sun rose .
Then , after a hasty breakfast , he went to gather Beauty 's rose , and mounted his horse , which carried him off so swiftly that in an instant he had lost sight of the palace , and he was still wrapped in gloomy thoughts when it stopped before the door of the cottage .
His sons and daughters , who had been very uneasy at his long absence , rushed to meet him , eager to know the result of his journey , which , seeing him mounted upon a splendid horse and wrapped in a rich mantle , they supposed to be favorable .
He hid the truth from them at first , only saying sadly to Beauty as he gave her the rose : `` Here is what you asked me to bring you ; you little know what it has cost . ''
But this excited their curiosity so greatly that presently he told them his adventures from beginning to end , and then they were all very unhappy .
The girls lamented loudly over their lost hopes , and the sons declared that their father should not return to this terrible castle , and began to make plans for killing the Beast if it should come to fetch him .
But he reminded them that he had promised to go back .
Then the girls were very angry with Beauty , and said it was all her fault , and that if she had asked for something sensible this would never have happened , and complained bitterly that they should have to suffer for her folly .
Poor Beauty , much distressed , said to them : `` I have , indeed , caused this misfortune , but I assure you I did it innocently .
Who could have guessed that to ask for a rose in the middle of summer would cause so much misery ?
But as I did the mischief it is only just that I should suffer for it .
I will therefore go back with my father to keep his promise . ''
At first nobody would hear of this arrangement , and her father and brothers , who loved her dearly , declared that nothing should make them let her go ; but Beauty was firm .
As the time drew near she divided all her little possessions between her sisters , and said good-by to everything she loved , and when the fatal day came she encouraged and cheered her father as they mounted together the horse which had brought him back .
It seemed to fly rather than gallop , but so smoothly that Beauty was not frightened ; indeed , she would have enjoyed the journey if she had not feared what might happen to her at the end of it .
Her father still tried to persuade her to go back , but in vain .
While they were talking the night fell , and then , to their great surprise , wonderful colored lights began to shine in all directions , and splendid fireworks blazed out before them ; all the forest was illuminated by them , and even felt pleasantly warm , though it had been bitterly cold before .
This lasted until they reached the avenue of orange trees , where were statues holding flaming torches , and when they got nearer to the palace they saw that it was illuminated from the roof to the ground , and music sounded softly from the courtyard .
`` The Beast must be very hungry , '' said Beauty , trying to laugh , `` if he makes all this rejoicing over the arrival of his prey . ''
But , in spite of her anxiety , she could not help admiring all the wonderful things she saw .
The horse stopped at the foot of the flight of steps leading to the terrace , and when they had dismounted her father led her to the little room he had been in before , where they found a splendid fire burning , and the table daintily spread with a delicious supper .
The merchant knew that this was meant for them , and Beauty , who was rather less frightened now that she had passed through so many rooms and seen nothing of the Beast , was quite willing to begin , for her long ride had made her very hungry .
But they had hardly finished their meal when the noise of the Beast 's footsteps was heard approaching , and Beauty clung to her father in terror , which became all the greater when she saw how frightened he was .
But when the Beast really appeared , though she trembled at the sight of him , she made a great effort to hide her terror , and saluted him respectfully .
This evidently pleased the Beast .
After looking at her he said , in a tone that might have struck terror into the boldest heart , though he did not seem to be angry : `` Good-evening , old man .
Good-evening , Beauty . ''
The merchant was too terrified to reply , but Beauty answered sweetly : `` Good-evening , Beast . ''
`` Have you come willingly ? ''
asked the Beast .
`` Will you be content to stay here when your father goes away ? ''
Beauty answered bravely that she was quite prepared to stay .
`` I am pleased with you , '' said the Beast .
`` As you have come of your own accord , you may stay .
As for you , old man , '' he added , turning to the merchant , `` at sunrise to-morrow you will take your departure .
When the bell rings get up quickly and eat your breakfast , and you will find the same horse waiting to take you home ; but remember that you must never expect to see my palace again . ''
Then turning to Beauty , he said : `` Take your father into the next room , and help him to choose everything you think your brothers and sisters would like to have .
You will find two traveling-trunks there ; fill them as full as you can .
It is only just that you should send them something very precious as a remembrance of yourself . ''
Then he went away , after saying , `` Good-by , Beauty ; good-by , old man '' ; and though Beauty was beginning to think with great dismay of her father 's departure , she was afraid to disobey the Beast 's orders ; and they went into the next room , which had shelves and cupboards all round it .
They were greatly surprised at the riches it contained .
There were splendid dresses fit for a queen , with all the ornaments that were to be worn with them ; and when Beauty opened the cupboards she was quite dazzled by the gorgeous jewels that lay in heaps upon every shelf .
After choosing a vast quantity , which she divided between her sisters -- for she had made a heap of the wonderful dresses for each of them -- she opened the last chest , which was full of gold .
`` I think , father , '' she said , `` that , as the gold will be more useful to you , we had better take out the other things again , and fill the trunks with it . ''
So they did this ; but the more they put in the more room there seemed to be , and at last they put back all the jewels and dresses they had taken out , and Beauty even added as many more of the jewels as she could carry at once ; and then the trunks were not too full , but they were so heavy that an elephant could not have carried them !
`` The Beast was mocking us , '' cried the merchant ; `` he must have pretended to give us all these things , knowing that I could not carry them away . ''
`` Let us wait and see , '' answered Beauty .
`` I can not believe that he meant to deceive us .
All we can do is to fasten them up and leave them ready . ''
So they did this and returned to the little room , where , to their astonishment , they found breakfast ready .
The merchant ate his with a good appetite , as the Beast 's generosity made him believe that he might perhaps venture to come back soon and see Beauty .
But she felt sure that her father was leaving her for ever , so she was very sad when the bell rang sharply for the second time , and warned them that the time had come for them to part .
They went down into the courtyard , where two horses were waiting , one loaded with the two trunks , the other for him to ride .
They were pawing the ground in their impatience to start , and the merchant was forced to bid Beauty a hasty farewell ; and as soon as he was mounted he went off at such a pace that she lost sight of him in an instant .
Then Beauty began to cry , and wandered sadly back to her own room .
But she soon found that she was very sleepy , and as she had nothing better to do she lay down and instantly fell asleep .
And then she dreamed that she was walking by a brook bordered with trees , and lamenting her sad fate , when a young prince , handsomer than anyone she had ever seen , and with a voice that went straight to her heart , came and said to her , `` Ah , Beauty !
you are not so unfortunate as you suppose .
Here you will be rewarded for all you have suffered elsewhere .
Your every wish shall be gratified .
Only try to find me out , no matter how I may be disguised , as I love you dearly , and in making me happy you will find your own happiness .
Be as true-hearted as you are beautiful , and we shall have nothing left to wish for . ''
`` What can I do , Prince , to make you happy ? ''
said Beauty .
`` Only be grateful , '' he answered , `` and do not trust too much to your eyes .
And , above all , do not desert me until you have saved me from my cruel misery . ''
After this she thought she found herself in a room with a stately and beautiful lady , who said to her : `` Dear Beauty , try not to regret all you have left behind you , for you are destined to a better fate .
Only do not let yourself be deceived by appearances . ''
Beauty found her dreams so interesting that she was in no hurry to awake , but presently the clock roused her by calling her name softly twelve times , and then she got up and found her dressing-table set out with everything she could possibly want ; and when her toilet was finished she found dinner was waiting in the room next to hers .
But dinner does not take very long when you are all by yourself , and very soon she sat down cosily in the corner of a sofa , and began to think about the charming Prince she had seen in her dream .
`` He said I could make him happy , '' said Beauty to herself .
`` It seems , then , that this horrible Beast keeps him a prisoner .
How can I set him free ?
I wonder why they both told me not to trust to appearances ?
I do n't understand it .
But , after all , it was only a dream , so why should I trouble myself about it ?
I had better go and find something to do to amuse myself . ''
So she got up and began to explore some of the many rooms of the palace .
The first she entered was lined with mirrors , and Beauty saw herself reflected on every side , and thought she had never seen such a charming room .
Then a bracelet which was hanging from a chandelier caught her eye , and on taking it down she was greatly surprised to find that it held a portrait of her unknown admirer , just as she had seen him in her dream .
With great delight she slipped the bracelet on her arm , and went on into a gallery of pictures , where she soon found a portrait of the same handsome Prince , as large as life , and so well painted that as she studied it he seemed to smile kindly at her .
Tearing herself away from the portrait at last , she passed through into a room which contained every musical instrument under the sun , and here she amused herself for a long while in trying some of them , and singing until she was tired .
The next room was a library , and she saw everything she had ever wanted to read , as well as everything she had read , and it seemed to her that a whole lifetime would not be enough to even read the names of the books , there were so many .
By this time it was growing dusk , and wax candles in diamond and ruby candlesticks were beginning to light themselves in every room .
Beauty found her supper served just at the time she preferred to have it , but she did not see anyone or hear a sound , and , though her father had warned her that she would be alone , she began to find it rather dull .
But presently she heard the Beast coming , and wondered tremblingly if he meant to eat her up now .
However , as he did not seem at all ferocious , and only said gruffly : `` Good-evening , Beauty , '' she answered cheerfully and managed to conceal her terror .
Then the Beast asked her how she had been amusing herself , and she told him all the rooms she had seen .
Then he asked if she thought she could be happy in his palace ; and Beauty answered that everything was so beautiful that she would be very hard to please if she could not be happy .
And after about an hour 's talk Beauty began to think that the Beast was not nearly so terrible as she had supposed at first .
Then he got up to leave her , and said in his gruff voice : `` Do you love me , Beauty ?
Will you marry me ? ''
`` Oh !
what shall I say ? ''
cried Beauty , for she was afraid to make the Beast angry by refusing .
`` Say ` yes ' or ` no ' without fear , '' he replied .
`` Oh !
no , Beast , '' said Beauty hastily .
`` Since you will not , good-night , Beauty , '' he said .
And she answered , `` Good-night , Beast , '' very glad to find that her refusal had not provoked him .
And after he was gone she was very soon in bed and asleep , and dreaming of her unknown Prince .
She thought he came and said to her : `` Ah , Beauty !
why are you so unkind to me ?
I fear I am fated to be unhappy for many a long day still . ''
And then her dreams changed , but the charming Prince figured in them all ; and when morning came her first thought was to look at the portrait , and see if it was really like him , and she found that it certainly was .
This morning she decided to amuse herself in the garden , for the sun shone , and all the fountains were playing ; but she was astonished to find that every place was familiar to her , and presently she came to the brook where the myrtle trees were growing where she had first met the Prince in her dream , and that made her think more than ever that he must be kept a prisoner by the Beast .
When she was tired she went back to the palace , and found a new room full of materials for every kind of work -- ribbons to make into bows , and silks to work into flowers .
Then there was an aviary full of rare birds , which were so tame that they flew to Beauty as soon as they saw her , and perched upon her shoulders and her head .
`` Pretty little creatures , '' she said , `` how I wish that your cage was nearer to my room , that I might often hear you sing ! ''
So saying she opened a door , and found , to her delight , that it led into her own room , though she had thought it was quite the other side of the palace .
There were more birds in a room farther on , parrots and cockatoos that could talk , and they greeted Beauty by name ; indeed , she found them so entertaining that she took one or two back to her room , and they talked to her while she was at supper ; after which the Beast paid her his usual visit , and asked her the same questions as before , and then with a gruff `` good-night '' he took his departure , and Beauty went to bed to dream of her mysterious Prince .
The days passed swiftly in different amusements , and after a while Beauty found out another strange thing in the palace , which often pleased her when she was tired of being alone .
There was one room which she had not noticed particularly ; it was empty , except that under each of the windows stood a very comfortable chair ; and the first time she had looked out of the window it had seemed to her that a black curtain prevented her from seeing anything outside .
But the second time she went into the room , happening to be tired , she sat down in one of the chairs , when instantly the curtain was rolled aside , and a most amusing pantomime was acted before her ; there were dances , and colored lights , and music , and pretty dresses , and it was all so gay that Beauty was in ecstacies .
After that she tried the other seven windows in turn , and there was some new and surprising entertainment to be seen from each of them , so that Beauty never could feel lonely any more .
Every evening after supper the Beast came to see her , and always before saying good-night asked her in his terrible voice : `` Beauty , will you marry me ? ''
And it seemed to Beauty , now she understood him better , that when she said , `` No , Beast , '' he went away quite sad .
But her happy dreams of the handsome young Prince soon made her forget the poor Beast , and the only thing that at all disturbed her was to be constantly told to distrust appearances , to let her heart guide her , and not her eyes , and many other equally perplexing things , which , consider as she would , she could not understand .
So everything went on for a long time , until at last , happy as she was , Beauty began to long for the sight of her father and her brothers and sisters ; and one night , seeing her look very sad , the Beast asked her what was the matter .
Beauty had quite ceased to be afraid of him .
Now she knew that he was really gentle in spite of his ferocious looks and his dreadful voice .
So she answered that she was longing to see her home once more .
Upon hearing this the Beast seemed sadly distressed , and cried miserably .
`` Ah !
Beauty , have you the heart to desert an unhappy Beast like this ?
What more do you want to make you happy ?
Is it because you hate me that you want to escape ? ''
`` No , dear Beast , '' answered Beauty softly , `` I do not hate you , and I should be very sorry never to see you any more , but I long to see my father again .
Only let me go for two months , and I promise to come back to you and stay for the rest of my life . ''
The Beast , who had been sighing dolefully while she spoke , now replied : `` I can not refuse you anything you ask , even though it should cost me my life .
Take the four boxes you will find in the room next to your own , and fill them with everything you wish to take with you .
But remember your promise and come back when the two months are over , or you may have cause to repent it , for if you do not come in good time you will find your faithful Beast dead .
You will not need any chariot to bring you back .
Only say good-by to all your brothers and sisters the night before you come away , and when you have gone to bed turn this ring round upon your finger and say firmly : ' I wish to go back to my palace and see my Beast again . '
Good-night , Beauty .
Fear nothing , sleep peacefully , and before long you shall see your father once more . ''
As soon as Beauty was alone she hastened to fill the boxes with all the rare and precious things she saw about her , and only when she was tired of heaping things into them did they seem to be full .
Then she went to bed , but could hardly sleep for joy .
And when at last she did begin to dream of her beloved Prince she was grieved to see him stretched upon a grassy bank , sad and weary , and hardly like himself .
`` What is the matter ? ''
she cried .
He looked at her reproachfully , and said : `` How can you ask me , cruel one ?
Are you not leaving me to my death perhaps ? ''
`` Ah !
do n't be so sorrowful , '' cried Beauty ; `` I am only going to assure my father that I am safe and happy .
I have promised the Beast faithfully that I will come back , and he would die of grief if I did not keep my word ! ''
`` What would that matter to you ? ''
said the Prince `` Surely you would not care ? ''
`` Indeed , I should be ungrateful if I did not care for such a kind Beast , '' cried Beauty indignantly .
`` I would die to save him from pain .
I assure you it is not his fault that he is so ugly . ''
Just then a strange sound woke her -- someone was speaking not very far away ; and opening her eyes she found herself in a room she had never seen before , which was certainly not nearly so splendid as those she was used to in the Beast 's palace .
Where could she be ?
She got up and dressed hastily , and then saw that the boxes she had packed the night before were all in the room .
While she was wondering by what magic the Beast had transported them and herself to this strange place she suddenly heard her father 's voice , and rushed out and greeted him joyfully .
Her brothers and sisters were all astonished at her appearance , as they had never expected to see her again , and there was no end to the questions they asked her .
She had also much to hear about what had happened to them while she was away , and of her father 's journey home .
But when they heard that she had only come to be with them for a short time , and then must go back to the Beast 's palace for ever , they lamented loudly .
Then Beauty asked her father what he thought could be the meaning of her strange dreams , and why the Prince constantly begged her not to trust to appearances .
After much consideration , he answered : `` You tell me yourself that the Beast , frightful as he is , loves you dearly , and deserves your love and gratitude for his gentleness and kindness ; I think the Prince must mean you to understand that you ought to reward him by doing as he wishes you to , in spite of his ugliness . ''
Beauty could not help seeing that this seemed very probable ; still , when she thought of her dear Prince who was so handsome , she did not feel at all inclined to marry the Beast .
At any rate , for two months she need not decide , but could enjoy herself with her sisters .
But though they were rich now , and lived in town again , and had plenty of acquaintances , Beauty found that nothing amused her very much ; and she often thought of the palace , where she was so happy , especially as at home she never once dreamed of her dear Prince , and she felt quite sad without him .
Then her sisters seemed to have got quite used to being without her , and even found her rather in the way , so she would not have been sorry when the two months were over but for her father and brothers , who begged her to stay , and seemed so grieved at the thought of her departure that she had not the courage to say good-by to them .
Every day when she got up she meant to say it at night , and when night came she put it off again , until at last she had a dismal dream which helped her to make up her mind .
She thought she was wandering in a lonely path in the palace gardens , when she heard groans which seemed to come from some bushes hiding the entrance of a cave , and running quickly to see what could be the matter , she found the Beast stretched out upon his side , apparently dying .
He reproached her faintly with being the cause of his distress , and at the same moment a stately lady appeared , and said very gravely : `` Ah !
Beauty , you are only just in time to save his life .
See what happens when people do not keep their promises !
If you had delayed one day more , you would have found him dead . ''
Beauty was so terrified by this dream that the next morning she announced her intention of going back at once , and that very night she said good-by to her father and all her brothers and sisters , and as soon as she was in bed she turned her ring round upon her finger , and said firmly , `` I wish to go back to my palace and see my Beast again , '' as she had been told to do .
Then she fell asleep instantly , and only woke up to hear the clock saying `` Beauty , Beauty '' twelve times in its musical voice , which told her at once that she was really in the palace once more .
Everything was just as before , and her birds were so glad to see her !
But Beauty thought she had never known such a long day , for she was so anxious to see the Beast again that she felt as if suppertime would never come .
But when it did come and no Beast appeared she was really frightened ; so , after listening and waiting for a long time , she ran down into the garden to search for him .
Up and down the paths and avenues ran poor Beauty , calling him in vain , for no one answered , and not a trace of him could she find ; until at last , quite tired , she stopped for a minute 's rest , and saw that she was standing opposite the shady path she had seen in her dream .
She rushed down it , and , sure enough , there was the cave , and in it lay the Beast -- asleep , as Beauty thought .
Quite glad to have found him , she ran up and stroked his head , but , to her horror , he did not move or open his eyes .
`` Oh !
he is dead ; and it is all my fault , '' said Beauty , crying bitterly .
But then , looking at him again , she fancied he still breathed , and , hastily fetching some water from the nearest fountain , she sprinkled it over his face , and , to her great delight , he began to revive .
`` Oh !
Beast , how you frightened me ! ''
she cried .
`` I never knew how much I loved you until just now , when I feared I was too late to save your life . ''
`` Can you really love such an ugly creature as I am ? ''
said the Beast faintly .
`` Ah !
Beauty , you only came just in time .
I was dying because I thought you had forgotten your promise .
But go back now and rest , I shall see you again by and by . ''
Beauty , who had half expected that he would be angry with her , was reassured by his gentle voice , and went back to the palace , where supper was awaiting her ; and afterward the Beast came in as usual , and talked about the time she had spent with her father , asking if she had enjoyed herself , and if they had all been very glad to see her .
Beauty answered politely , and quite enjoyed telling him all that had happened to her .
And when at last the time came for him to go , and he asked , as he had so often asked before , `` Beauty , will you marry me ? ''
She answered softly , `` Yes , dear Beast . ''
As she spoke a blaze of light sprang up before the windows of the palace ; fireworks crackled and guns banged , and across the avenue of orange trees , in letters all made of fire-flies , was written : `` Long live the Prince and his Bride . ''
Turning to ask the Beast what it could all mean , Beauty found that he had disappeared , and in his place stood her long-loved Prince !
At the same moment the wheels of a chariot were heard upon the terrace , and two ladies entered the room .
One of them Beauty recognized as the stately lady she had seen in her dreams ; the other was also so grand and queenly that Beauty hardly knew which to greet first .
But the one she already knew said to her companion : `` Well , Queen , this is Beauty , who has had the courage to rescue your son from the terrible enchantment .
They love one another , and only your consent to their marriage is wanting to make them perfectly happy . ''
`` I consent with all my heart , '' cried the Queen .
`` How can I ever thank you enough , charming girl , for having restored my dear son to his natural form ? ''
And then she tenderly embraced Beauty and the Prince , who had meanwhile been greeting the Fairy and receiving her congratulations .
`` Now , '' said the Fairy to Beauty , `` I suppose you would like me to send for all your brothers and sisters to dance at your wedding ? ''
And so she did , and the marriage was celebrated the very next day with the utmost splendor , and Beauty and the Prince lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Belle et la Bete .
Par Madame de Villeneuve .
THE MASTER-MAID Once upon a time there was a king who had many sons .
I do not exactly know how many there were , but the youngest of them could not stay quietly at home , and was determined to go out into the world and try his luck , and after a long time the King was forced to give him leave to go .
When he had traveled about for several days , he came to a giant 's house , and hired himself to the giant as a servant .
In the morning the giant had to go out to pasture his goats , and as he was leaving the house he told the King 's son that he must clean out the stable .
`` And after you have done that , '' he said , `` you need not do any more work to-day , for you have come to a kind master , and that you shall find .
But what I set you to do must be done both well and thoroughly , and you must on no account go into any of the rooms which lead out of the room in which you slept last night .
If you do , I will take your life . ''
`` Well to be sure , he is an easy master ! ''
said the Prince to himself as he walked up and down the room humming and singing , for he thought there would be plenty of time left to clean out the stable ; `` but it would be amusing to steal a glance into his other rooms as well , '' thought the Prince , `` for there must be something that he is afraid of my seeing , as I am not allowed to enter them . ''
So he went into the first room .
A cauldron was hanging from the walls ; it was boiling , but the Prince could see no fire under it .
`` I wonder what is inside it , '' he thought , and dipped a lock of his hair in , and the hair became just as if it were all made of copper .
`` That 's a nice kind of soup .
If anyone were to taste that his throat would be gilded , '' said the youth , and then he went into the next chamber .
There , too , a cauldron was hanging from the wall , bubbling and boiling , but there was no fire under this either .
`` I will just try what this is like too , '' said the Prince , thrusting another lock of his hair into it , and it came out silvered over .
`` Such costly soup is not to be had in my father 's palace , '' said the Prince ; `` but everything depends on how it tastes , '' and then he went into the third room .
There , too , a cauldron was hanging from the wall , boiling , exactly the same as in the two other rooms , and the Prince took pleasure in trying this also , so he dipped a lock of hair in , and it came out so brightly gilded that it shone again .
`` Some talk about going from bad to worse , '' said the Prince ; `` but this is better and better .
If he boils gold here , what can he boil in there ? ''
He was determined to see , and went through the door into the fourth room .
No cauldron was to be seen there , but on a bench someone was seated who was like a king 's daughter , but , whosoever she was , she was so beautiful that never in the Prince 's life had he seen her equal .
`` Oh !
in heaven 's name what are you doing here ? ''
said she who sat upon the bench .
`` I took the place of servant here yesterday , '' said the Prince .
`` May you soon have a better place , if you have come to serve here ! ''
said she .
`` Oh , but I think I have got a kind master , '' said the Prince .
`` He has not given me hard work to do to-day .
When I have cleaned out the stable I shall be done . ''
`` Yes , but how will you be able to do that ? ''
she asked again .
`` If you clean it out as other people do , ten pitchforksful will come in for every one you throw out .
But I will teach you how to do it ; you must turn your pitchfork upside down , and work with the handle , and then all will fly out of its own accord . ''
`` Yes , I will attend to that , '' said the Prince , and stayed sitting where he was the whole day , for it was soon settled between them that they would marry each other , he and the King 's daughter ; so the first day of his service with the giant did not seem long to him .
But when evening was drawing near she said that it would now be better for him to clean out the stable before the giant came home .
When he got there he had a fancy to try if what she had said were true , so he began to work in the same way that he had seen the stable-boys doing in his father 's stables , but he soon saw that he must give up that , for when he had worked a very short time he had scarcely any room left to stand .
So he did what the Princess had taught him , turned the pitchfork round , and worked with the handle , and in the twinkling of an eye the stable was as clean as if it had been scoured .
When he had done that , he went back again into the room in which the giant had given him leave to stay , and there he walked backward and forward on the floor , and began to hum and sing .
Then came the giant home with the goats .
`` Have you cleaned the stable ? ''
asked the giant .
`` Yes , now it is clean and sweet , master , '' said the King 's son .
`` I shall see about that , '' said the giant , and went round to the stable , but it was just as the Prince had said .
`` You have certainly been talking to my Master-maid , for you never got that out of your own head , '' said the giant .
`` Master-maid !
What kind of a thing is that , master ? ''
said the Prince , making himself look as stupid as an ass ; `` I should like to see that . ''
`` Well , you will see her quite soon enough , '' said the giant .
On the second morning the giant had again to go out with his goats , so he told the Prince that on that day he was to fetch home his horse , which was out on the mountain-side , and when he had done that he might rest himself for the remainder of the day , `` for you have come to a kind master , and that you shall find , '' said the giant once more .
`` But do not go into any of the rooms that I spoke of yesterday , or I will wring your head off , '' said he , and then went away with his flock of goats .
`` Yes , indeed , you are a kind master , '' said the Prince ; `` but I will go in and talk to the Master-maid again ; perhaps before long she may like better to be mine than yours . ''
So he went to her .
Then she asked him what he had to do that day .
`` Oh !
not very dangerous work , I fancy , '' said the King 's son .
`` I have only to go up the mountain-side after his horse . ''
`` Well , how do you mean to set about it ? ''
asked the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
there is no great art in riding a horse home , '' said the King 's son .
`` I think I must have ridden friskier horses before now . ''
`` Yes , but it is not so easy a thing as you think to ride the horse home , '' said the Master-maid ; `` but I will teach you what to do .
When you go near it , fire will burst out of its nostrils like flames from a pine torch ; but be very careful , and take the bridle which is hanging by the door there , and fling the bit straight into his jaws , and then it will become so tame that you will be able to do what you like with it . ''
He said he would bear this in mind , and then he again sat in there the whole day by the Master-maid , and they chatted and talked of one thing and another , but the first thing and the last now was , how happy and delightful it would be if they could but marry each other , and get safely away from the giant ; and the Prince would have forgotten both the mountain-side and the horse if the Master-maid had not reminded him of them as evening drew near , and said that now it would be better if he went to fetch the horse before the giant came .
So he did this , and took the bridle which was hanging on a crook , and strode up the mountain-side , and it was not long before he met with the horse , and fire and red flames streamed forth out of its nostrils .
But the youth carefully watched his opportunity , and just as it was rushing at him with open jaws he threw the bit straight into its mouth , and the horse stood as quiet as a young lamb , and there was no difficulty at all in getting it home to the stable .
Then the Prince went back into his room again , and began to hum and to sing .
Toward evening the giant came home .
`` Have you fetched the horse back from the mountain-side ? ''
he asked .
`` That I have , master ; it was an amusing horse to ride , but I rode him straight home , and put him in the stable too , '' said the Prince .
`` I will see about that , '' said the giant , and went out to the stable , but the horse was standing there just as the Prince had said .
`` You have certainly been talking with my Master-maid , for you never got that out of your own head , '' said the giant again .
`` Yesterday , master , you talked about this Master-maid , and to-day you are talking about her ; ah , heaven bless you , master , why will you not show me the thing ?
for it would be a real pleasure to me to see it , '' said the Prince , who again pretended to be silly and stupid .
`` Oh !
you will see her quite soon enough , '' said the giant .
On the morning of the third day the giant again had to go into the wood with the goats .
`` To-day you must go underground and fetch my taxes , '' he said to the Prince .
`` When you have done this , you may rest for the remainder of the day , for you shall see what an easy master you have come to , '' and then he went away .
`` Well , however easy a master you may be , you set me very hard work to do , '' thought the Prince ; `` but I will see if I can not find your Master-maid ; you say she is yours , but for all that she may be able to tell me what to do now , '' and he went back to her .
So , when the Master-maid asked him what the giant had set him to do that day , he told her that he was to go underground and get the taxes .
`` And how will you set about that ? ''
said the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
you must tell me how to do it , '' said the Prince , `` for I have never yet been underground , and even if I knew the way I do not know how much I am to demand . ''
`` Oh !
yes , I will soon tell you that ; you must go to the rock there under the mountain-ridge , and take the club that is there , and knock on the rocky wall , '' said the Master-maid .
`` Then someone will come out who will sparkle with fire ; you shall tell him your errand , and when he asks you how much you want to have you are to say : ` As much as I can carry . ' ''
`` Yes , I will keep that in mind , '' said he , and then he sat there with the Master-maid the whole day , until night drew near , and he would gladly have stayed there till now if the Master-maid had not reminded him that it was time to be off to fetch the taxes before the giant came .
So he set out on his way , and did exactly what the Master-maid had told him .
He went to the rocky wall , and took the club , and knocked on it .
Then came one so full of sparks that they flew both out of his eyes and his nose .
`` What do you want ? ''
said he .
`` I was to come here for the giant , and demand the tax for him , '' said the King 's son .
`` How much are you to have then ? ''
said the other .
`` I ask for no more than I am able to carry with me , '' said the Prince .
`` It is well for you that you have not asked for a horse-load , '' said he who had come out of the rock .
`` But now come in with me . ''
This the Prince did , and what a quantity of gold and silver he saw !
It was lying inside the mountain like heaps of stones in a waste place , and he got a load that was as large as he was able to carry , and with that he went his way .
So in the evening , when the giant came home with the goats , the Prince went into the chamber and hummed and sang again as he had done on the other two evenings .
`` Have you been for the tax ? ''
said the giant .
`` Yes , that I have , master , '' said the Prince .
`` Where have you put it then ? ''
said the giant again .
`` The bag of gold is standing there on the bench , '' said the Prince .
`` I will see about that , '' said the giant , and went away to the bench , but the bag was standing there , and it was so full that gold and silver dropped out when the giant untied the string .
`` You have certainly been talking with my Master-maid ! ''
said the giant , `` and if you have I will wring your neck . ''
`` Master-maid ? ''
said the Prince ; `` yesterday my master talked about this Master-maid , and to-day he is talking about her again , and the first day of all it was talk of the same kind .
I do wish I could see the thing myself , '' said he .
`` Yes , yes , wait till to-morrow , '' said the giant , `` and then I myself will take you to her . ''
`` Ah !
master , I thank you -- but you are only mocking me , '' said the King 's son .
Next day the giant took him to the Master-maid .
`` Now you shall kill him , and boil him in the great big cauldron you know of , and when you have got the broth ready give me a call , '' said the giant ; then he lay down on the bench to sleep , and almost immediately began to snore so that it sounded like thunder among the hills .
So the Master-maid took a knife , and cut the Prince 's little finger , and dropped three drops of blood upon a wooden stool ; then she took all the old rags , and shoe-soles , and all the rubbish she could lay hands on , and put them in the cauldron ; and then she filled a chest with gold dust , and a lump of salt , and a water-flask which was hanging by the door , and she also took with her a golden apple , and two gold chickens ; and then she and the Prince went away with all the speed they could , and when they had gone a little way they came to the sea , and then they sailed , but where they got the ship from I have never been able to learn .
Now , when the giant had slept a good long time , he began to stretch himself on the bench on which he was lying .
`` Will it soon boil ? ''
said he .
`` It is just beginning , '' said the first drop of blood on the stool .
So the giant lay down to sleep again , and slept for a long , long time .
Then he began to move about a little again .
`` Will it soon be ready now ? ''
said he , but he did not look up this time any more than he had done the first time , for he was still half asleep .
`` Half done ! ''
said the second drop of blood , and the giant believed it was the Master-maid again , and turned himself on the bench , and lay down to sleep once more .
When he had slept again for many hours , he began to move and stretch himself .
`` Is it not done yet ? ''
said he .
`` It is quite ready , '' said the third drop of blood .
Then the giant began to sit up and rub his eyes , but he could not see who it was who had spoken to him , so he asked for the Master-maid , and called her .
But there was no one to give him an answer .
`` Ah !
well , she has just stolen out for a little , '' thought the giant , and he took a spoon , and went off to the cauldron to have a taste ; but there was nothing in it but shoe-soles , and rags , and such trumpery as that , and all was boiled up together , so that he could not tell whether it was porridge or milk pottage .
When he saw this , he understood what had happened , and fell into such a rage that he hardly knew what he was doing .
Away he went after the Prince and the Master-maid so fast that the wind whistled behind him , and it was not long before he came to the water , but he could not get over it .
`` Well , well , I will soon find a cure for that ; I have only to call my river-sucker , '' said the giant , and he did call him .
So his river-sucker came and lay down , and drank one , two , three draughts , and with that the water in the sea fell so low that the giant saw the Master-maid and the Prince out on the sea in their ship .
`` Now you must throw out the lump of salt , '' said the Master-maid , and the Prince did so , and it grew up into such a great high mountain right across the sea that the giant could not come over it , and the river-sucker could not drink any more water .
`` Well , well , I will soon find a cure for that , '' said the giant , so he called to his hill-borer to come and bore through the mountain so that the river-sucker might be able to drink up the water again .
But just as the hole was made , and the river-sucker was beginning to drink , the Master-maid told the Prince to throw one or two drops out of the flask , and when he did this the sea instantly became full of water again , and before the river-sucker could take one drink they reached the land and were in safety .
So they determined to go home to the Prince 's father , but the Prince would on no account permit the Master-maid to walk there , for he thought that it was unbecoming either for her or for him to go on foot .
`` Wait here the least little bit of time , while I go home for the seven horses which stand in my father 's stable , '' said he ; `` it is not far off , and I shall not be long away , but I will not let my betrothed bride go on foot to the palace . ''
`` Oh !
no , do not go , for if you go home to the King 's palace you will forget me , I foresee that . ''
`` How could I forget you ?
We have suffered so much evil together , and love each other so much , '' said the Prince ; and he insisted on going home for the coach with the seven horses , and she was to wait for him there , by the sea-shore .
So at last the Master-maid had to yield , for he was so absolutely determined to do it .
`` But when you get there you must not even give yourself time to greet anyone , but go straight into the stable , and take the horses , and put them in the coach , and drive back as quickly as you can .
For they will all come round about you ; but you must behave just as if you did not see them , and on no account must you taste anything , for if you do it will cause great misery both to you and to me , '' said she ; and this he promised .
But when he got home to the King 's palace one of his brothers was just going to be married , and the bride and all her kith and kin had come to the palace ; so they all thronged round him , and questioned him about this and that , and wanted him to go in with them ; but he behaved as if he did not see them , and went straight to the stable , and got out the horses and began to harness them .
When they saw that they could not by any means prevail on him to go in with them , they came out to him with meat and drink , and the best of everything that they had prepared for the wedding ; but the Prince refused to touch anything , and would do nothing but put the horses in as quickly as he could .
At last , however , the bride 's sister rolled an apple across the yard to him , and said : `` As you wo n't eat anything else , you may like to take a bite of that , for you must be both hungry and thirsty after your long journey . ''
And he took up the apple and bit a piece out of it .
But no sooner had he got the piece of apple in his mouth than he forgot the Master-maid and that he was to go back in the coach to fetch her .
`` I think I must be mad !
what do I want with this coach and horses ? ''
said he ; and then he put the horses back into the stable , and went into the King 's palace , and there it was settled that he should marry the bride 's sister , who had rolled the apple to him .
The Master-maid sat by the sea-shore for a long , long time , waiting for the Prince , but no Prince came .
So she went away , and when she had walked a short distance she came to a little hut which stood all alone in a small wood , hard by the King 's palace .
She entered it and asked if she might be allowed to stay there .
The hut belonged to an old crone , who was also an ill-tempered and malicious troll .
At first she would not let the Master-maid remain with her ; but at last , after a long time , by means of good words and good payment , she obtained leave .
But the hut was as dirty and black inside as a pigsty , so the Master-maid said that she would smarten it up a little , that it might look a little more like what other people 's houses looked inside .
The old crone did not like this either .
She scowled , and was very cross , but the Master-maid did not trouble herself about that .
She took out her chest of gold , and flung a handful of it or so into the fire , and the gold boiled up and poured out over the whole of the hut , until every part of it both inside and out was gilded .
But when the gold began to bubble up the old hag grew so terrified that she fled as if the Evil One himself were pursuing her , and she did not remember to stoop down as she went through the doorway , and so she split her head and died .
Next morning the sheriff came traveling by there .
He was greatly astonished when he saw the gold hut shining and glittering there in the copse , and he was still more astonished when he went in and caught sight of the beautiful young maiden who was sitting there ; he fell in love with her at once , and straightway on the spot he begged her , both prettily and kindly , to marry him .
`` Well , but have you a great deal of money ? ''
said the Master-maid .
`` Oh !
yes ; so far as that is concerned , I am not ill off , '' said the sheriff .
So now he had to go home to get the money , and in the evening he came back , bringing with him a bag with two bushels in it , which he set down on the bench .
Well , as he had such a fine lot of money , the Master-maid said she would have him , so they sat down to talk .
But scarcely had they sat down together before the Master-maid wanted to jump up again .
`` I have forgotten to see to the fire , '' she said .
`` Why should you jump up to do that ? ''
said the sheriff ; `` I will do that ! ''
So he jumped up , and went to the chimney in one bound .
`` Just tell me when you have got hold of the shovel , '' said the Master-maid .
`` Well , I have hold of it now , '' said the sheriff .
`` Then you may hold the shovel , and the shovel you , and pour red-hot coals over you , till day dawns , '' said the Master-maid .
So the sheriff had to stand there the whole night and pour red-hot coals over himself , and , no matter how much he cried and begged and entreated , the red-hot coals did not grow the colder for that .
When the day began to dawn , and he had power to throw down the shovel , he did not stay long where he was , but ran away as fast as he possibly could ; and everyone who met him stared and looked after him , for he was flying as if he were mad , and he could not have looked worse if he had been both flayed and tanned , and everyone wondered where he had been , but for very shame he would tell nothing .
The next day the attorney came riding by the place where the Master-maid dwelt .
He saw how brightly the hut shone and gleamed through the wood , and he too went into it to see who lived there , and when he entered and saw the beautiful young maiden he fell even more in love with her than the sheriff had done , and began to woo her at once .
So the Master-maid asked him , as she had asked the sheriff , if he had a great deal of money , and the attorney said he was not ill off for that , and would at once go home to get it ; and at night he came with a great big sack of money -- this time it was a four-bushel sack -- and set it on the bench by the Master-maid .
So she promised to have him , and he sat down on the bench by her to arrange about it , but suddenly she said that she had forgotten to lock the door of the porch that night , and must do it .
`` Why should you do that ? ''
said the attorney ; `` sit still , I will do it . ''
So he was on his feet in a moment , and out in the porch .
`` Tell me when you have got hold of the door-latch , '' said the Master-maid .
`` I have hold of it now , '' cried the attorney .
`` Then you may hold the door , and the door you , and may you go between wall and wall till day dawns . ''
What a dance the attorney had that night !
He had never had such a waltz before , and he never wished to have such a dance again .
Sometimes he was in front of the door , and sometimes the door was in front of him , and it went from one side of the porch to the other , till the attorney was well-nigh beaten to death .
At first he began to abuse the Master-maid , and then to beg and pray , but the door did not care for anything but keeping him where he was till break of day .
As soon as the door let go its hold of him , off went the attorney .
He forgot who ought to be paid off for what he had suffered , he forgot both his sack of money and his wooing , for he was so afraid lest the house-door should come dancing after him .
Everyone who met him stared and looked after him , for he was flying like a madman , and he could not have looked worse if a herd of rams had been butting at him all night long .
On the third day the bailiff came by , and he too saw the gold house in the little wood , and he too felt that he must go and see who lived there ; and when he caught sight of the Master-maid he became so much in love with her that he wooed her almost before he greeted her .
The Master-maid answered him as she had answered the other two , that if he had a great deal of money , she would have him .
`` So far as that is concerned , I am not ill off , '' said the bailiff ; so he was at once told to go home and fetch it , and this he did .
At night he came back , and he had a still larger sack of money with him than the attorney had brought ; it must have been at least six bushels , and he set it down on the bench .
So it was settled that he was to have the Master-maid .
But hardly had they sat down together before she said that she had forgotten to bring in the calf , and must go out to put it in the byre .
`` No , indeed , you shall not do that , '' said the bailiff ; `` I am the one to do that . ''
And , big and fat as he was , he went out as briskly as a boy .
`` Tell me when you have got hold of the calf 's tail , '' said the Master-maid .
`` I have hold of it now , '' cried the bailiff .
`` Then may you hold the calf 's tail , and the calf 's tail hold you , and may you go round the world together till day dawns ! ''
said the Master-maid .
So the bailiff had to bestir himself , for the calf went over rough and smooth , over hill and dale , and , the more the bailiff cried and screamed , the faster the calf went .
When daylight began to appear , the bailiff was half dead ; and so glad was he to leave loose of the calf 's tail , that he forgot the sack of money and all else .
He walked now slowly -- more slowly than the sheriff and the attorney had done , but , the slower he went , the more time had everyone to stare and look at him ; and they used it too , and no one can imagine how tired out and ragged he looked after his dance with the calf .
On the following day the wedding was to take place in the King 's palace , and the elder brother was to drive to church with his bride , and the brother who had been with the giant with her sister .
But when they had seated themselves in the coach and were about to drive off from the palace one of the trace-pins broke , and , though they made one , two , and three to put in its place , that did not help them , for each broke in turn , no matter what kind of wood they used to make them of .
This went on for a long time , and they could not get away from the palace , so they were all in great trouble .
Then the sheriff said -LRB- for he too had been bidden to the wedding at Court -RRB- : `` Yonder away in the thicket dwells a maiden , and if you can get her to lend you the handle of the shovel that she uses to make up her fire I know very well that it will hold fast . ''
So they sent off a messenger to the thicket , and begged so prettily that they might have the loan of her shovel-handle of which the sheriff had spoken that they were not refused ; so now they had a trace-pin which would not snap in two .
But all at once , just as they were starting , the bottom of the coach fell in pieces .
They made a new bottom as fast as they could , but , no matter how they nailed it together , or what kind of wood they used , no sooner had they got the new bottom into the coach and were about to drive off than it broke again , so that they were still worse off than when they had broken the trace-pin .
Then the attorney said , for he too was at the wedding in the palace : `` Away there in the thicket dwells a maiden , and if you could but get her to lend you one-half of her porch-door I am certain that it will hold together . ''
So they again sent a messenger to the thicket , and begged so prettily for the loan of the gilded porch-door of which the attorney had told them that they got it at once .
They were just setting out again , but now the horses were not able to draw the coach .
They had six horses already , and now they put in eight , and then ten , and then twelve , but the more they put in , and the more the coachman whipped them , the less good it did ; and the coach never stirred from the spot .
It was already beginning to be late in the day , and to church they must and would go , so everyone who was in the palace was in a state of distress .
Then the bailiff spoke up and said : `` Out there in the gilded cottage in the thicket dwells a girl , and if you could but get her to lend you her calf I know it could draw the coach , even if it were as heavy as a mountain . ''
They all thought that it was ridiculous to be drawn to church by a calf , but there was nothing else for it but to send a messenger once more , and beg as prettily as they could , on behalf of the King , that she would let them have the loan of the calf that the bailiff had told them about .
The Master-maid let them have it immediately -- this time also she would not say `` no . ''
Then they harnessed the calf to see if the coach would move ; and away it went , over rough and smooth , over stock and stone , so that they could scarcely breathe , and sometimes they were on the ground , and sometimes up in the air ; and when they came to the church the coach began to go round and round like a spinning-wheel , and it was with the utmost difficulty and danger that they were able to get out of the coach and into the church .
And when they went back again the coach went quicker still , so that most of them did not know how they got back to the palace at all .
When they had seated themselves at the table the Prince who had been in service with the giant said that he thought they ought to have invited the maiden who had lent them the shovel-handle , and the porch-door , and the calf up to the palace , `` for , '' said he , `` if we had not got these three things , we should never have got away from the palace . ''
The King also thought that this was both just and proper , so he sent five of his best men down to the gilded hut , to greet the maiden courteously from the King , and to beg her to be so good as to come up to the palace to dinner at mid-day .
`` Greet the King , and tell him that , if he is too good to come to me , I am too good to come to him , '' replied the Master-maid .
So the King had to go himself , and the Master-maid went with him immediately , and , as the King believed that she was more than she appeared to be , he seated her in the place of honor by the youngest bridegroom .
When they had sat at the table for a short time , the Master-maid took out the cock , and the hen , and the golden apple which she had brought away with her from the giant 's house , and set them on the table in front of her , and instantly the cock and the hen began to fight with each other for the golden apple .
`` Oh !
look how those two there are fighting for the golden apple , '' said the King 's son .
`` Yes , and so did we two fight to get out that time when we were in the mountain , '' said the Master-maid .
So the Prince knew her again , and you may imagine how delighted he was .
He ordered the troll-witch who had rolled the apple to him to be torn in pieces between four-and-twenty horses , so that not a bit of her was left , and then for the first time they began really to keep the wedding , and , weary as they were , the sheriff , the attorney , and the bailiff kept it up too .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
WHY THE SEA IS SALT Once upon a time , long , long ago , there were two brothers , the one rich and the other poor .
When Christmas Eve came , the poor one had not a bite in the house , either of meat or bread ; so he went to his brother , and begged him , in God 's name , to give him something for Christmas Day .
It was by no means the first time that the brother had been forced to give something to him , and he was not better pleased at being asked now than he generally was .
`` If you will do what I ask you , you shall have a whole ham , '' said he .
The poor one immediately thanked him , and promised this .
`` Well , here is the ham , and now you must go straight to Dead Man 's Hall , '' said the rich brother , throwing the ham to him .
`` Well , I will do what I have promised , '' said the other , and he took the ham and set off .
He went on and on for the livelong day , and at nightfall he came to a place where there was a bright light .
`` I have no doubt this is the place , '' thought the man with the ham .
An old man with a long white beard was standing in the outhouse , chopping Yule logs .
`` Good-evening , '' said the man with the ham .
`` Good-evening to you .
Where are you going at this late hour ? ''
said the man .
`` I am going to Dead Man 's Hall , if only I am on the right track , '' answered the poor man .
`` Oh !
yes , you are right enough , for it is here , '' said the old man .
`` When you get inside they will all want to buy your ham , for they do n't get much meat to eat there ; but you must not sell it unless you can get the hand-mill which stands behind the door for it .
When you come out again I will teach you how to stop the hand-mill , which is useful for almost everything . ''
So the man with the ham thanked the other for his good advice , and rapped at the door .
When he got in , everything happened just as the old man had said it would : all the people , great and small , came round him like ants on an ant-hill , and each tried to outbid the other for the ham .
`` By rights my old woman and I ought to have it for our Christmas dinner , but , since you have set your hearts upon it , I must just give it up to you , '' said the man .
`` But , if I sell it , I will have the hand-mill which is standing there behind the door . ''
At first they would not hear of this , and haggled and bargained with the man , but he stuck to what he had said , and the people were forced to give him the hand-mill .
When the man came out again into the yard , he asked the old wood-cutter how he was to stop the hand-mill , and when he had learned that , he thanked him and set off home with all the speed he could , but did not get there until after the clock had struck twelve on Christmas Eve .
`` Where in the world have you been ? ''
said the old woman .
`` Here I have sat waiting hour after hour , and have not even two sticks to lay across each other under the Christmas porridge-pot . ''
`` Oh !
I could not come before ; I had something of importance to see about , and a long way to go , too ; but now you shall just see ! ''
said the man , and then he set the hand-mill on the table , and bade it first grind light , then a table-cloth , and then meat , and beer , and everything else that was good for a Christmas Eve 's supper ; and the mill ground all that he ordered .
`` Bless me ! ''
said the old woman as one thing after another appeared ; and she wanted to know where her husband had got the mill from , but he would not tell her that .
`` Never mind where I got it ; you can see that it is a good one , and the water that turns it will never freeze , '' said the man .
So he ground meat and drink , and all kinds of good things , to last all Christmas-tide , and on the third day he invited all his friends to come to a feast .
Now when the rich brother saw all that there was at the banquet and in the house , he was both vexed and angry , for he grudged everything his brother had .
`` On Christmas Eve he was so poor that he came to me and begged for a trifle , for God 's sake , and now he gives a feast as if he were both a count and a king ! ''
thought he .
`` But , for heaven 's sake , tell me where you got your riches from , '' said he to his brother .
`` From behind the door , '' said he who owned the mill , for he did not choose to satisfy his brother on that point ; but later in the evening , when he had taken a drop too much , he could not refrain from telling how he had come by the hand-mill .
`` There you see what has brought me all my wealth ! ''
said he , and brought out the mill , and made it grind first one thing and then another .
When the brother saw that , he insisted on having the mill , and after a great deal of persuasion got it ; but he had to give three hundred dollars for it , and the poor brother was to keep it till the haymaking was over , for he thought : `` If I keep it as long as that , I can make it grind meat and drink that will last many a long year . ''
During that time you may imagine that the mill did not grow rusty , and when hay-harvest came the rich brother got it , but the other had taken good care not to teach him how to stop it .
It was evening when the rich man got the mill home , and in the morning he bade the old woman go out and spread the hay after the mowers , and he would attend to the house himself that day , he said .
So , when dinner-time drew near , he set the mill on the kitchen-table , and said : `` Grind herrings and milk pottage , and do it both quickly and well . ''
So the mill began to grind herrings and milk pottage , and first all the dishes and tubs were filled , and then it came out all over the kitchen-floor .
The man twisted and turned it , and did all he could to make the mill stop , but , howsoever he turned it and screwed it , the mill went on grinding , and in a short time the pottage rose so high that the man was like to be drowned .
So he threw open the parlor door , but it was not long before the mill had ground the parlor full too , and it was with difficulty and danger that the man could go through the stream of pottage and get hold of the door-latch .
When he got the door open , he did not stay long in the room , but ran out , and the herrings and pottage came after him , and it streamed out over both farm and field .
Now the old woman , who was out spreading the hay , began to think dinner was long in coming , and said to the women and the mowers : `` Though the master does not call us home , we may as well go .
It may be that he finds he is not good at making pottage and I should do well to help him . ''
So they began to straggle homeward , but when they had got a little way up the hill they met the herrings and pottage and bread , all pouring forth and winding about one over the other , and the man himself in front of the flood .
`` Would to heaven that each of you had a hundred stomachs !
Take care that you are not drowned in the pottage ! ''
he cried as he went by them as if Mischief were at his heels , down to where his brother dwelt .
Then he begged him , for God 's sake , to take the mill back again , and that in an instant , for , said he : `` If it grind one hour more the whole district will be destroyed by herrings and pottage . ''
But the brother would not take it until the other paid him three hundred dollars , and that he was obliged to do .
Now the poor brother had both the money and the mill again .
So it was not long before he had a farmhouse much finer than that in which his brother lived , but the mill ground him so much money that he covered it with plates of gold ; and the farmhouse lay close by the sea-shore , so it shone and glittered far out to sea .
Everyone who sailed by there now had to be put in to visit the rich man in the gold farmhouse , and everyone wanted to see the wonderful mill , for the report of it spread far and wide , and there was no one who had not heard tell of it .
After a long , long time came also a skipper who wished to see the mill .
He asked if it could make salt .
`` Yes , it could make salt , '' said he who owned it , and when the skipper heard that , he wished with all his might and main to have the mill , let it cost what it might , for , he thought , if he had it , he would get off having to sail far away over the perilous sea for freights of salt .
At first the man would not hear of parting with it , but the skipper begged and prayed , and at last the man sold it to him , and got many , many thousand dollars for it .
When the skipper had got the mill on his back he did not stay there long , for he was so afraid that the man would change his mind , and he had no time to ask how he was to stop it grinding , but got on board his ship as fast as he could .
When he had gone a little way out to sea he took the mill on deck .
`` Grind salt , and grind both quickly and well , '' said the skipper .
So the mill began to grind salt , till it spouted out like water , and when the skipper had got the ship filled he wanted to stop the mill , but whichsoever way he turned it , and how much soever he tried , it went on grinding , and the heap of salt grew higher and higher , until at last the ship sank .
There lies the mill at the bottom of the sea , and still , day by day , it grinds on ; and that is why the sea is salt .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE MASTER CAT ; OR , PUSS IN BOOTS There was a miller who left no more estate to the three sons he had than his mill , his ass , and his cat .
The partition was soon made .
Neither scrivener nor attorney was sent for .
They would soon have eaten up all the poor patrimony .
The eldest had the mill , the second the ass , and the youngest nothing but the cat .
The poor young fellow was quite comfortless at having so poor a lot .
`` My brothers , '' said he , `` may get their living handsomely enough by joining their stocks together ; but for my part , when I have eaten up my cat , and made me a muff of his skin , I must die of hunger . ''
The Cat , who heard all this , but made as if he did not , said to him with a grave and serious air : `` Do not thus afflict yourself , my good master .
You have nothing else to do but to give me a bag and get a pair of boots made for me that I may scamper through the dirt and the brambles , and you shall see that you have not so bad a portion in me as you imagine . ''
The Cat 's master did not build very much upon what he said .
He had often seen him play a great many cunning tricks to catch rats and mice , as when he used to hang by the heels , or hide himself in the meal , and make as if he were dead ; so that he did not altogether despair of his affording him some help in his miserable condition .
When the Cat had what he asked for he booted himself very gallantly , and putting his bag about his neck , he held the strings of it in his two forepaws and went into a warren where was great abundance of rabbits .
He put bran and sow-thistle into his bag , and stretching out at length , as if he had been dead , he waited for some young rabbits , not yet acquainted with the deceits of the world , to come and rummage his bag for what he had put into it .
Scarce was he lain down but he had what he wanted .
A rash and foolish young rabbit jumped into his bag , and Monsieur Puss , immediately drawing close the strings , took and killed him without pity .
Proud of his prey , he went with it to the palace and asked to speak with his majesty .
He was shown upstairs into the King 's apartment , and , making a low reverence , said to him : `` I have brought you , sir , a rabbit of the warren , which my noble lord the Marquis of Carabas '' -LRB- for that was the title which puss was pleased to give his master -RRB- `` has commanded me to present to your majesty from him . ''
`` Tell thy master , '' said the king , `` that I thank him and that he does me a great deal of pleasure . ''
Another time he went and hid himself among some standing corn , holding still his bag open , and when a brace of partridges ran into it he drew the strings and so caught them both .
He went and made a present of these to the king , as he had done before of the rabbit which he took in the warren .
The king , in like manner , received the partridges with great pleasure , and ordered him some money for drink .
The Cat continued for two or three months thus to carry his Majesty , from time to time , game of his master 's taking .
One day in particular , when he knew for certain that he was to take the air along the river-side , with his daughter , the most beautiful princess in the world , he said to his master : `` If you will follow my advice your fortune is made .
You have nothing else to do but go and wash yourself in the river , in that part I shall show you , and leave the rest to me . ''
The Marquis of Carabas did what the Cat advised him to , without knowing why or wherefore .
While he was washing the King passed by , and the Cat began to cry out : `` Help !
help !
My Lord Marquis of Carabas is going to be drowned . ''
At this noise the King put his head out of the coach-window , and , finding it was the Cat who had so often brought him such good game , he commanded his guards to run immediately to the assistance of his Lordship the Marquis of Carabas .
While they were drawing the poor Marquis out of the river , the Cat came up to the coach and told the King that , while his master was washing , there came by some rogues , who went off with his clothes , though he had cried out : `` Thieves !
thieves ! ''
several times , as loud as he could .
This cunning Cat had hidden them under a great stone .
The King immediately commanded the officers of his wardrobe to run and fetch one of his best suits for the Lord Marquis of Carabas .
The King caressed him after a very extraordinary manner , and as the fine clothes he had given him extremely set off his good mien -LRB- for he was well made and very handsome in his person -RRB- , the King 's daughter took a secret inclination to him , and the Marquis of Carabas had no sooner cast two or three respectful and somewhat tender glances but she fell in love with him to distraction .
The King would needs have him come into the coach and take part of the airing .
The Cat , quite overjoyed to see his project begin to succeed , marched on before , and , meeting with some countrymen , who were mowing a meadow , he said to them : `` Good people , you who are mowing , if you do not tell the King that the meadow you mow belongs to my Lord Marquis of Carabas , you shall be chopped as small as herbs for the pot . ''
The King did not fail asking of the mowers to whom the meadow they were mowing belonged .
`` To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , '' answered they altogether , for the Cat 's threats had made them terribly afraid .
`` You see , sir , '' said the Marquis , `` this is a meadow which never fails to yield a plentiful harvest every year . ''
The Master Cat , who went still on before , met with some reapers , and said to them : `` Good people , you who are reaping , if you do not tell the King that all this corn belongs to the Marquis of Carabas , you shall be chopped as small as herbs for the pot . ''
The King , who passed by a moment after , would needs know to whom all that corn , which he then saw , did belong .
`` To my Lord Marquis of Carabas , '' replied the reapers , and the King was very well pleased with it , as well as the Marquis , whom he congratulated thereupon .
The Master Cat , who went always before , said the same words to all he met , and the King was astonished at the vast estates of my Lord Marquis of Carabas .
Monsieur Puss came at last to a stately castle , the master of which was an ogre , the richest had ever been known ; for all the lands which the King had then gone over belonged to this castle .
The Cat , who had taken care to inform himself who this ogre was and what he could do , asked to speak with him , saying he could not pass so near his castle without having the honor of paying his respects to him .
The ogre received him as civilly as an ogre could do , and made him sit down .
`` I have been assured , '' said the Cat , `` that you have the gift of being able to change yourself into all sorts of creatures you have a mind to ; you can , for example , transform yourself into a lion , or elephant , and the like . ''
`` That is true , '' answered the ogre very briskly ; `` and to convince you , you shall see me now become a lion . ''
Puss was so sadly terrified at the sight of a lion so near him that he immediately got into the gutter , not without abundance of trouble and danger , because of his boots , which were of no use at all to him in walking upon the tiles .
A little while after , when Puss saw that the ogre had resumed his natural form , he came down , and owned he had been very much frightened .
`` I have been , moreover , informed , '' said the Cat , `` but I know not how to believe it , that you have also the power to take on you the shape of the smallest animals ; for example , to change yourself into a rat or a mouse ; but I must own to you I take this to be impossible . ''
`` Impossible ! ''
cried the ogre ; `` you shall see that presently . ''
And at the same time he changed himself into a mouse , and began to run about the floor .
Puss no sooner perceived this but he fell upon him and ate him up .
Meanwhile the King , who saw , as he passed , this fine castle of the ogre 's , had a mind to go into it .
Puss , who heard the noise of his Majesty 's coach running over the draw-bridge , ran out , and said to the King : `` Your Majesty is welcome to this castle of my Lord Marquis of Carabas . ''
`` What !
my Lord Marquis , '' cried the King , `` and does this castle also belong to you ?
There can be nothing finer than this court and all the stately buildings which surround it ; let us go into it , if you please . ''
The Marquis gave his hand to the Princess , and followed the King , who went first .
They passed into a spacious hall , where they found a magnificent collation , which the ogre had prepared for his friends , who were that very day to visit him , but dared not to enter , knowing the King was there .
His Majesty was perfectly charmed with the good qualities of my Lord Marquis of Carabas , as was his daughter , who had fallen violently in love with him , and , seeing the vast estate he possessed , said to him , after having drunk five or six glasses : `` It will be owing to yourself only , my Lord Marquis , if you are not my son-in-law . ''
The Marquis , making several low bows , accepted the honor which his Majesty conferred upon him , and forthwith , that very same day , married the Princess .
Puss became a great lord , and never ran after mice any more but only for his diversion .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
FELICIA AND THE POT OF PINKS Once upon a time there was a poor laborer who , feeling that he had not much longer to live , wished to divide his possessions between his son and daughter , whom he loved dearly .
So he called them to him , and said : `` Your mother brought me as her dowry two stools and a straw bed ; I have , besides , a hen , a pot of pinks , and a silver ring , which were given me by a noble lady who once lodged in my poor cottage .
When she went away she said to me : '' ` Be careful of my gifts , good man ; see that you do not lose the ring or forget to water the pinks .
As for your daughter , I promise you that she shall be more beautiful than anyone you ever saw in your life ; call her Felicia , and when she grows up give her the ring and the pot of pinks to console her for her poverty . '
Take them both , then , my dear child , '' he added , `` and your brother shall have everything else . ''
The two children seemed quite contented , and when their father died they wept for him , and divided his possessions as he had told them .
Felicia believed that her brother loved her , but when she sat down upon one of the stools he said angrily : `` Keep your pot of pinks and your ring , but let my things alone .
I like order in my house . ''
Felicia , who was very gentle , said nothing , but stood up crying quietly ; while Bruno , for that was her brother 's name , sat comfortably by the fire .
Presently , when supper-time came , Bruno had a delicious egg , and he threw the shell to Felicia , saying : `` There , that is all I can give you ; if you do n't like it , go out and catch frogs ; there are plenty of them in the marsh close by . ''
Felicia did not answer , but she cried more bitterly than ever , and went away to her own little room .
She found it filled with the sweet scent of the pinks , and , going up to them , she said sadly : `` Beautiful pinks , you are so sweet and so pretty , you are the only comfort I have left .
Be very sure that I will take care of you , and water you well , and never allow any cruel hand to tear you from your stems . ''
As she leaned over them she noticed that they were very dry .
So taking her pitcher , she ran off in the clear moonlight to the fountain , which was at some distance .
When she reached it she sat down upon the brink to rest , but she had hardly done so when she saw a stately lady coming toward her , surrounded by numbers of attendants .
Six maids of honor carried her train , and she leaned upon the arm of another .
When they came near the fountain a canopy was spread for her , under which was placed a sofa of cloth-of-gold , and presently a dainty supper was served , upon a table covered with dishes of gold and crystal , while the wind in the trees and the falling water of the fountain murmured the softest music .
Felicia was hidden in the shade , too much astonished by all she saw to venture to move ; but in a few moments the Queen said : `` I fancy I see a shepherdess near that tree ; bid her come hither . ''
So Felicia came forward and saluted the Queen timidly , but with so much grace that all were surprised .
`` What are you doing here , my pretty child ? ''
asked the Queen .
`` Are you not afraid of robbers ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' said Felicia , `` a poor shepherdess who has nothing to lose does not fear robbers . ''
`` You are not very rich , then ? ''
said the Queen , smiling .
`` I am so poor , '' answered Felicia , `` that a pot of pinks and a silver ring are my only possessions in the world . ''
`` But you have a heart , '' said the Queen .
`` What should you say if anybody wanted to steal that ? ''
`` I do not know what it is like to lose one 's heart , madam , '' she replied ; `` but I have always heard that without a heart one can not live , and if it is broken one must die ; and in spite of my poverty I should be sorry not to live . ''
`` You are quite right to take care of your heart , pretty one , '' said the Queen .
`` But tell me , have you supped ? ''
`` No , madam , '' answered Felicia ; `` my brother ate all the supper there was . ''
Then the Queen ordered that a place should be made for her at the table , and herself loaded Felicia 's plate with good things ; but she was too much astonished to be hungry .
`` I want to know what you were doing at the fountain so late ? ''
said the Queen presently .
`` I came to fetch a pitcher of water for my pinks , madam , '' she answered , stooping to pick up the pitcher which stood beside her ; but when she showed it to the Queen she was amazed to see that it had turned to gold , all sparkling with great diamonds , and the water , of which it was full , was more fragrant than the sweetest roses .
She was afraid to take it until the Queen said : `` It is yours , Felicia ; go and water your pinks with it , and let it remind you that the Queen of the Woods is your friend . ''
The shepherdess threw herself at the Queen 's feet , and thanked her humbly for her gracious words .
`` Ah !
madam , '' she cried , `` if I might beg you to stay here a moment I would run and fetch my pot of pinks for you -- they could not fall into better hands . ''
`` Go , Felicia , '' said the Queen , stroking her cheek softly ; `` I will wait here until you come back . ''
So Felicia took up her pitcher and ran to her little room , but while she had been away Bruno had gone in and taken the pot of pinks , leaving a great cabbage in its place .
When she saw the unlucky cabbage Felicia was much distressed , and did not know what to do ; but at last she ran back to the fountain , and , kneeling before the Queen , said : `` Madam , Bruno has stolen my pot of pinks , so I have nothing but my silver ring ; but I beg you to accept it as a proof of my gratitude . ''
`` But if I take your ring , my pretty shepherdess , '' said the Queen , `` you will have nothing left ; and what will you do then ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' she answered simply , `` if I have your friendship I shall do very well . ''
So the Queen took the ring and put it on her finger , and mounted her chariot , which was made of coral studded with emeralds , and drawn by six milk-white horses .
And Felicia looked after her until the winding of the forest path hid her from her sight , and then she went back to the cottage , thinking over all the wonderful things that had happened .
The first thing she did when she reached her room was to throw the cabbage out of the window .
But she was very much surprised to hear an odd little voice cry out : `` Oh !
I am half killed ! ''
and could not tell where it came from , because cabbages do not generally speak .
As soon as it was light , Felicia , who was very unhappy about her pot of pinks , went out to look for it , and the first thing she found was the unfortunate cabbage .
She gave it a push with her foot , saying : `` What are you doing here , and how dared you put yourself in the place of my pot of pinks ? ''
`` If I had n't been carried , '' replied the cabbage , `` you may be very sure that I should n't have thought of going there . ''
It made her shiver with fright to hear the cabbage talk , but he went on : `` If you will be good enough to plant me by my comrades again , I can tell you where your pinks are at this moment -- hidden in Bruno 's bed ! ''
Felicia was in despair when she heard this , not knowing how she was to get them back .
But she replanted the cabbage very kindly in his old place , and , as she finished doing it , she saw Bruno 's hen , and said , catching hold of it : `` Come here , horrid little creature !
you shall suffer for all the unkind things my brother has done to me . ''
`` Ah !
shepherdess , '' said the hen , `` do n't kill me ; I am rather a gossip , and I can tell you some surprising things that you will like to hear .
Do n't imagine that you are the daughter of the poor laborer who brought you up ; your mother was a queen who had six girls already , and the King threatened that unless she had a son who could inherit his kingdom she should have her head cut off .
`` So when the Queen had another little daughter she was quite frightened , and agreed with her sister -LRB- who was a fairy -RRB- to exchange her for the fairy 's little son .
Now the Queen had been shut up in a great tower by the King 's orders , and when a great many days went by and still she heard nothing from the Fairy she made her escape from the window by means of a rope ladder , taking her little baby with her .
After wandering about until she was half dead with cold and fatigue she reached this cottage .
I was the laborer 's wife , and was a good nurse , and the Queen gave you into my charge , and told me all her misfortunes , and then died before she had time to say what was to become of you .
`` As I never in all my life could keep a secret , I could not help telling this strange tale to my neighbors , and one day a beautiful lady came here , and I told it to her also .
When I had finished she touched me with a wand she held in her hand , and instantly I became a hen , and there was an end of my talking !
I was very sad , and my husband , who was out when it happened , never knew what had become of me .
After seeking me everywhere he believed that I must have been drowned , or eaten up by wild beasts in the forest .
That same lady came here once more , and commanded that you should be called Felicia , and left the ring and the pot of pinks to be given to you ; and while she was in the house twenty-five of the King 's guards came to search for you , doubtless meaning to kill you ; but she muttered a few words , and immediately they all turned into cabbages .
It was one of them whom you threw out of your window yesterday .
`` I do n't know how it was that he could speak -- I have never heard either of them say a word before , nor have I been able to do it myself until now . ''
The Princess was greatly astonished at the hen 's story , and said kindly : `` I am truly sorry for you , my poor nurse , and wish it was in my power to restore you to your real form .
But we must not despair ; it seems to me , after what you have told me , that something must be going to happen soon .
Just now , however , I must go and look for my pinks , which I love better than anything in the world . ''
Bruno had gone out into the forest , never thinking that Felicia would search in his room for the pinks , and she was delighted by his unexpected absence , and thought to get them back without further trouble .
But as soon as she entered the room she saw a terrible army of rats , who were guarding the straw bed ; and when she attempted to approach it they sprang at her , biting and scratching furiously .
Quite terrified , she drew back , crying out : `` Oh !
my dear pinks , how can you stay here in such bad company ? ''
Then she suddenly bethought herself of the pitcher of water , and , hoping that it might have some magic power , she ran to fetch it , and sprinkled a few drops over the fierce-looking swarm of rats .
In a moment not a tail or a whisker was to be seen .
Each one had made for his hole as fast as his legs could carry him , so that the Princess could safely take her pot of pinks .
She found them nearly dying for want of water , and hastily poured all that was left in the pitcher upon them .
As she bent over them , enjoying their delicious scent , a soft voice , that seemed to rustle among the leaves , said : `` Lovely Felicia , the day has come at last when I may have the happiness of telling you how even the flowers love you and rejoice in your beauty . ''
The Princess , quite overcome by the strangeness of hearing a cabbage , a hen , and a pink speak , and by the terrible sight of an army of rats , suddenly became very pale , and fainted away .
At this moment in came Bruno .
Working hard in the heat had not improved his temper , and when he saw that Felicia had succeeded in finding her pinks he was so angry that he dragged her out into the garden and shut the door upon her .
The fresh air soon made her open her pretty eyes , and there before her stood the Queen of the Woods , looking as charming as ever .
`` You have a bad brother , '' she said ; `` I saw he turned you out .
Shall I punish him for it ? ''
`` Ah !
no , madam , '' she said ; `` I am not angry with him .
`` But supposing he was not your brother , after all , what would you say then ? ''
asked the Queen .
`` Oh !
but I think he must be , '' said Felicia .
`` What ! ''
said the Queen , `` have you not heard that you are a Princess ? ''
`` I was told so a little while ago , madam , but how could I believe it without a single proof ? ''
`` Ah !
dear child , '' said the Queen , `` the way you speak assures me that , in spite of your humble upbringing , you are indeed a real princess , and I can save you from being treated in such a way again . ''
She was interrupted at this moment by the arrival of a very handsome young man .
He wore a coat of green velvet fastened with emerald clasps , and had a crown of pinks on his head .
He knelt upon one knee and kissed the Queen 's hand .
`` Ah ! ''
she cried , `` my pink , my dear son , what a happiness to see you restored to your natural shape by Felicia 's aid ! ''
And she embraced him joyfully .
Then , turning to Felicia , she said : `` Charming Princess , I know all the hen told you , but you can not have heard that the zephyrs , to whom was entrusted the task of carrying my son to the tower where the Queen , your mother , so anxiously waited for him , left him instead in a garden of flowers , while they flew off to tell your mother .
Whereupon a fairy with whom I had quarrelled changed him into a pink , and I could do nothing to prevent it .
`` You can imagine how angry I was , and how I tried to find some means of undoing the mischief she had done ; but there was no help for it .
I could only bring Prince Pink to the place where you were being brought up , hoping that when you grew up he might love you , and by your care be restored to his natural form .
And you see everything has come right , as I hoped it would .
Your giving me the silver ring was the sign that the power of the charm was nearly over , and my enemy 's last chance was to frighten you with her army of rats .
That she did not succeed in doing ; so now , my dear Felicia , if you will be married to my son with this silver ring your future happiness is certain .
Do you think him handsome and amiable enough to be willing to marry him ? ''
`` Madam , '' replied Felicia , blushing , `` you overwhelm me with your kindness .
I know that you are my mother 's sister , and that by your art you turned the soldiers who were sent to kill me into cabbages , and my nurse into a hen , and that you do me only too much honor in proposing that I shall marry your son .
How can I explain to you the cause of my hesitation ?
I feel , for the first time in my life , how happy it would make me to be beloved .
Can you indeed give me the Prince 's heart ? ''
`` It is yours already , lovely Princess ! ''
he cried , taking her hand in his ; `` but for the horrible enchantment which kept me silent I should have told you long ago how dearly I love you . ''
This made the Princess very happy , and the Queen , who could not bear to see her dressed like a poor shepherdess , touched her with her wand , saying : `` I wish you to be attired as befits your rank and beauty . ''
And immediately the Princess 's cotton dress became a magnificent robe of silver brocade embroidered with carbuncles , and her soft dark hair was encircled by a crown of diamonds , from which floated a clear white veil .
With her bright eyes , and the charming color in her cheeks , she was altogether such a dazzling sight that the Prince could hardly bear it .
`` How pretty you are , Felicia ! ''
he cried .
`` Do n't keep me in suspense , I entreat you ; say that you will marry me . ''
`` Ah ! ''
said the Queen , smiling , `` I think she will not refuse now . ''
Just then Bruno , who was going back to his work , came out of the cottage , and thought he must be dreaming when he saw Felicia ; but she called him very kindly , and begged the Queen to take pity on him .
`` What ! ''
she said , `` when he was so unkind to you ? ''
`` Ah !
madam , '' said the Princess , `` I am so happy that I should like everybody else to be happy too . ''
The Queen kissed her , and said : `` Well , to please you , let me see what I can do for this cross Bruno . ''
And with a wave of her wand she turned the poor little cottage into a splendid palace , full of treasures ; only the two stools and the straw bed remained just as they were , to remind him of his former poverty .
Then the Queen touched Bruno himself , and made him gentle and polite and grateful , and he thanked her and the Princess a thousand times .
Lastly , the Queen restored the hen and the cabbages to their natural forms , and left them all very contented .
The Prince and Princess were married as soon as possible with great splendor , and lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Fortunee .
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy .
THE WHITE CAT Once upon a time there was a king who had three sons , who were all so clever and brave that he began to be afraid that they would want to reign over the kingdom before he was dead .
Now the King , though he felt that he was growing old , did not at all wish to give up the government of his kingdom while he could still manage it very well , so he thought the best way to live in peace would be to divert the minds of his sons by promises which he could always get out of when the time came for keeping them .
So he sent for them all , and , after speaking to them kindly , he added : `` You will quite agree with me , my dear children , that my great age makes it impossible for me to look after my affairs of state as carefully as I once did .
I begin to fear that this may affect the welfare of my subjects , therefore I wish that one of you should succeed to my crown ; but in return for such a gift as this it is only right that you should do something for me .
Now , as I think of retiring into the country , it seems to me that a pretty , lively , faithful little dog would be very good company for me ; so , without any regard for your ages , I promise that the one who brings me the most beautiful little dog shall succeed me at once . ''
The three Princes were greatly surprised by their father 's sudden fancy for a little dog , but as it gave the two younger ones a chance they would not otherwise have had of being king , and as the eldest was too polite to make any objection , they accepted the commission with pleasure .
They bade farewell to the King , who gave them presents of silver and precious stones , and appointed to meet them at the same hour , in the same place , after a year had passed , to see the little dogs they had brought for him .
Then they went together to a castle which was about a league from the city , accompanied by all their particular friends , to whom they gave a grand banquet , and the three brothers promised to be friends always , to share whatever good fortune befell them , and not to be parted by any envy or jealousy ; and so they set out , agreeing to meet at the same castle at the appointed time , to present themselves before the King together .
Each one took a different road , and the two eldest met with many adventures ; but it is about the youngest that you are going to hear .
He was young , and gay , and handsome , and knew everything that a prince ought to know ; and as for his courage , there was simply no end to it .
Hardly a day passed without his buying several dogs -- big and little , greyhounds , mastiffs , spaniels , and lapdogs .
As soon as he had bought a pretty one he was sure to see a still prettier , and then he had to get rid of all the others and buy that one , as , being alone , he found it impossible to take thirty or forty thousand dogs about with him .
He journeyed from day to day , not knowing where he was going , until at last , just at nightfall , he reached a great , gloomy forest .
He did not know his way , and , to make matters worse , it began to thunder , and the rain poured down .
He took the first path he could find , and after walking for a long time he fancied he saw a faint light , and began to hope that he was coming to some cottage where he might find shelter for the night .
At length , guided by the light , he reached the door of the most splendid castle he could have imagined .
This door was of gold covered with carbuncles , and it was the pure red light which shone from them that had shown him the way through the forest .
The walls were of the finest porcelain in all the most delicate colors , and the Prince saw that all the stories he had ever read were pictured upon them ; but as he was terribly wet , and the rain still fell in torrents , he could not stay to look about any more , but came back to the golden door .
There he saw a deer 's foot hanging by a chain of diamonds , and he began to wonder who could live in this magnificent castle .
`` They must feel very secure against robbers , '' he said to himself .
`` What is to hinder anyone from cutting off that chain and digging out those carbuncles , and making himself rich for life ? ''
He pulled the deer 's foot , and immediately a silver bell sounded and the door flew open , but the Prince could see nothing but numbers of hands in the air , each holding a torch .
He was so much surprised that he stood quite still , until he felt himself pushed forward by other hands , so that , though he was somewhat uneasy , he could not help going on .
With his hand on his sword , to be prepared for whatever might happen , he entered a hall paved with lapis-lazuli , while two lovely voices sang : `` The hands you see floating above Will swiftly your bidding obey ; If your heart dreads not conquering Love , In this place you may fearlessly stay . ''
The Prince could not believe that any danger threatened him when he was welcomed in this way , so , guided by the mysterious hands , he went toward a door of coral , which opened of its own accord , and he found himself in a vast hall of mother-of-pearl , out of which opened a number of other rooms , glittering with thousands of lights , and full of such beautiful pictures and precious things that the Prince felt quite bewildered .
After passing through sixty rooms the hands that conducted him stopped , and the Prince saw a most comfortable-looking arm-chair drawn up close to the chimney-corner ; at the same moment the fire lighted itself , and the pretty , soft , clever hands took off the Prince 's wet , muddy clothes , and presented him with fresh ones made of the richest stuffs , all embroidered with gold and emeralds .
He could not help admiring everything he saw , and the deft way in which the hands waited on him , though they sometimes appeared so suddenly that they made him jump .
When he was quite ready -- and I can assure you that he looked very different from the wet and weary Prince who had stood outside in the rain , and pulled the deer 's foot -- the hands led him to a splendid room , upon the walls of which were painted the histories of Puss in Boots and a number of other famous cats .
The table was laid for supper with two golden plates , and golden spoons and forks , and the sideboard was covered with dishes and glasses of crystal set with precious stones .
The Prince was wondering who the second place could be for , when suddenly in came about a dozen cats carrying guitars and rolls of music , who took their places at one end of the room , and under the direction of a cat who beat time with a roll of paper began to mew in every imaginable key , and to draw their claws across the strings of the guitars , making the strangest kind of music that could be heard .
The Prince hastily stopped up his ears , but even then the sight of these comical musicians sent him into fits of laughter .
`` What funny thing shall I see next ? ''
he said to himself , and instantly the door opened , and in came a tiny figure covered by a long black veil .
It was conducted by two cats wearing black mantles and carrying swords , and a large party of cats followed , who brought in cages full of rats and mice .
The Prince was so much astonished that he thought he must be dreaming , but the little figure came up to him and threw back its veil , and he saw that it was the loveliest little white cat it is possible to imagine .
She looked very young and very sad , and in a sweet little voice that went straight to his heart she said to the Prince : `` King 's son , you are welcome ; the Queen of the Cats is glad to see you . ''
`` Lady Cat , '' replied the Prince , `` I thank you for receiving me so kindly , but surely you are no ordinary pussy-cat ?
Indeed , the way you speak and the magnificence of your castle prove it plainly . ''
`` King 's son , '' said the White Cat , `` I beg you to spare me these compliments , for I am not used to them .
But now , '' she added , `` let supper be served , and let the musicians be silent , as the Prince does not understand what they are saying . ''
So the mysterious hands began to bring in the supper , and first they put on the table two dishes , one containing stewed pigeons and the other a fricassee of fat mice .
The sight of the latter made the Prince feel as if he could not enjoy his supper at all ; but the White Cat , seeing this , assured him that the dishes intended for him were prepared in a separate kitchen , and he might be quite certain that they contained neither rats nor mice ; and the Prince felt so sure that she would not deceive him that he had no more hesitation in beginning .
Presently he noticed that on the little paw that was next him the White Cat wore a bracelet containing a portrait , and he begged to be allowed to look at it .
To his great surprise he found it represented an extremely handsome young man , who was so like himself that it might have been his own portrait !
The White Cat sighed as he looked at it , and seemed sadder than ever , and the Prince dared not ask any questions for fear of displeasing her ; so he began to talk about other things , and found that she was interested in all the subjects he cared for himself , and seemed to know quite well what was going on in the world .
After supper they went into another room , which was fitted up as a theatre , and the cats acted and danced for their amusement , and then the White Cat said good-night to him , and the hands conducted him into a room he had not seen before , hung with tapestry worked with butterflies ' wings of every color ; there were mirrors that reached from the ceiling to the floor , and a little white bed with curtains of gauze tied up with ribbons .
The Prince went to bed in silence , as he did not quite know how to begin a conversation with the hands that waited on him , and in the morning he was awakened by a noise and confusion outside of his window , and the hands came and quickly dressed him in hunting costume .
When he looked out all the cats were assembled in the courtyard , some leading greyhounds , some blowing horns , for the White Cat was going out hunting .
The hands led a wooden horse up to the Prince , and seemed to expect him to mount it , at which he was very indignant ; but it was no use for him to object , for he speedily found himself upon its back , and it pranced gaily off with him .
The White Cat herself was riding a monkey , which climbed even up to the eagles ' nests when she had a fancy for the young eaglets .
Never was there a pleasanter hunting party , and when they returned to the castle the Prince and the White Cat supped together as before , but when they had finished she offered him a crystal goblet , which must have contained a magic draught , for , as soon as he had swallowed its contents , he forgot everything , even the little dog that he was seeking for the King , and only thought how happy he was to be with the White Cat !
And so the days passed , in every kind of amusement , until the year was nearly gone .
The Prince had forgotten all about meeting his brothers : he did not even know what country he belonged to ; but the White Cat knew when he ought to go back , and one day she said to him : `` Do you know that you have only three days left to look for the little dog for your father , and your brothers have found lovely ones ? ''
Then the Prince suddenly recovered his memory , and cried : `` What can have made me forget such an important thing ?
My whole fortune depends upon it ; and even if I could in such a short time find a dog pretty enough to gain me a kingdom , where should I find a horse who would carry me all that way in three days ? ''
And he began to be very vexed .
But the White Cat said to him : `` King 's son , do not trouble yourself ; I am your friend , and will make everything easy for you .
You can still stay here for a day , as the good wooden horse can take you to your country in twelve hours . ''
`` I thank you , beautiful Cat , '' said the Prince ; `` but what good will it do me to get back if I have not a dog to take to my father ? ''
`` See here , '' answered the White Cat , holding up an acorn ; `` there is a prettier one in this than in the Dogstar ! ''
`` Oh !
White Cat dear , '' said the Prince , `` how unkind you are to laugh at me now ! ''
`` Only listen , '' she said , holding the acorn to his ear .
And inside it he distinctly heard a tiny voice say : `` Bow-wow ! ''
The Prince was delighted , for a dog that can be shut up in an acorn must be very small indeed .
He wanted to take it out and look at it , but the White Cat said it would be better not to open the acorn till he was before the King , in case the tiny dog should be cold on the journey .
He thanked her a thousand times , and said good-by quite sadly when the time came for him to set out .
`` The days have passed so quickly with you , '' he said , `` I only wish I could take you with me now . ''
But the White Cat shook her head and sighed deeply in answer .
After all the Prince was the first to arrive at the castle where he had agreed to meet his brothers , but they came soon after , and stared in amazement when they saw the wooden horse in the courtyard jumping like a hunter .
The Prince met them joyfully , and they began to tell him all their adventures ; but he managed to hide from them what he had been doing , and even led them to think that a turnspit dog which he had with him was the one he was bringing for the King .
Fond as they all were of one another , the two eldest could not help being glad to think that their dogs certainly had a better chance .
The next morning they started in the same chariot .
The elder brothers carried in baskets two such tiny , fragile dogs that they hardly dared to touch them .
As for the turnspit , he ran after the chariot , and got so covered with mud that one could hardly see what he was like at all .
When they reached the palace everyone crowded round to welcome them as they went into the King 's great hall ; and when the two brothers presented their little dogs nobody could decide which was the prettier .
They were already arranging between themselves to share the kingdom equally , when the youngest stepped forward , drawing from his pocket the acorn the White Cat had given him .
He opened it quickly , and there upon a white cushion they saw a dog so small that it could easily have been put through a ring .
The Prince laid it upon the ground , and it got up at once and began to dance .
The King did not know what to say , for it was impossible that anything could be prettier than this little creature .
Nevertheless , as he was in no hurry to part with his crown , he told his sons that , as they had been so successful the first time , he would ask them to go once again , and seek by land and sea for a piece of muslin so fine that it could be drawn through the eye of a needle .
The brothers were not very willing to set out again , but the two eldest consented because it gave them another chance , and they started as before .
The youngest again mounted the wooden horse , and rode back at full speed to his beloved White Cat .
Every door of the castle stood wide open , and every window and turret was illuminated , so it looked more wonderful than before .
The hands hastened to meet him , and led the wooden horse off to the stable , while he hurried in to find the White Cat .
She was asleep in a little basket on a white satin cushion , but she very soon started up when she heard the Prince , and was overjoyed at seeing him once more .
`` How could I hope that you would come back to me King 's son ? ''
she said .
And then he stroked and petted her , and told her of his successful journey , and how he had come back to ask her help , as he believed that it was impossible to find what the King demanded .
The White Cat looked serious , and said she must think what was to be done , but that , luckily , there were some cats in the castle who could spin very well , and if anybody could manage it they could , and she would set them the task herself .
And then the hands appeared carrying torches , and conducted the Prince and the White Cat to a long gallery which overlooked the river , from the windows of which they saw a magnificent display of fireworks of all sorts ; after which they had supper , which the Prince liked even better than the fireworks , for it was very late , and he was hungry after his long ride .
And so the days passed quickly as before ; it was impossible to feel dull with the White Cat , and she had quite a talent for inventing new amusements -- indeed , she was cleverer than a cat has any right to be .
But when the Prince asked her how it was that she was so wise , she only said : `` King 's son , do not ask me ; guess what you please .
I may not tell you anything . ''
The Prince was so happy that he did not trouble himself at all about the time , but presently the White Cat told him that the year was gone , and that he need not be at all anxious about the piece of muslin , as they had made it very well .
`` This time , '' she added , `` I can give you a suitable escort '' ; and on looking out into the courtyard the Prince saw a superb chariot of burnished gold , enameled in flame color with a thousand different devices .
It was drawn by twelve snow-white horses , harnessed four abreast ; their trappings were flame-colored velvet , embroidered with diamonds .
A hundred chariots followed , each drawn by eight horses , and filled with officers in splendid uniforms , and a thousand guards surrounded the procession .
`` Go ! ''
said the White Cat , `` and when you appear before the King in such state he surely will not refuse you the crown which you deserve .
Take this walnut , but do not open it until you are before him , then you will find in it the piece of stuff you asked me for . ''
`` Lovely Blanchette , '' said the Prince , `` how can I thank you properly for all your kindness to me ?
Only tell me that you wish it , and I will give up for ever all thought of being king , and will stay here with you always . ''
`` King 's son , '' she replied , `` it shows the goodness of your heart that you should care so much for a little white cat , who is good for nothing but to catch mice ; but you must not stay . ''
So the Prince kissed her little paw and set out .
You can imagine how fast he traveled when I tell you that they reached the King 's palace in just half the time it had taken the wooden horse to get there .
This time the Prince was so late that he did not try to meet his brothers at their castle , so they thought he could not be coming , and were rather glad of it , and displayed their pieces of muslin to the King proudly , feeling sure of success .
And indeed the stuff was very fine , and would go through the eye of a very large needle ; but the King , who was only too glad to make a difficulty , sent for a particular needle , which was kept among the Crown jewels , and had such a small eye that everybody saw at once that it was impossible that the muslin should pass through it .
The Princes were angry , and were beginning to complain that it was a trick , when suddenly the trumpets sounded and the youngest Prince came in .
His father and brothers were quite astonished at his magnificence , and after he had greeted them he took the walnut from his pocket and opened it , fully expecting to find the piece of muslin , but instead there was only a hazel-nut .
He cracked it , and there lay a cherry-stone .
Everybody was looking on , and the King was chuckling to himself at the idea of finding the piece of muslin in a nutshell .
However , the Prince cracked the cherry-stone , but everyone laughed when he saw it contained only its own kernel .
He opened that and found a grain of wheat , and in that was a millet seed .
Then he himself began to wonder , and muttered softly : `` White Cat , White Cat , are you making fun of me ? ''
In an instant he felt a cat 's claw give his hand quite a sharp scratch , and hoping that it was meant as an encouragement he opened the millet seed , and drew out of it a piece of muslin four hundred ells long , woven with the loveliest colors and most wonderful patterns ; and when the needle was brought it went through the eye six times with the greatest ease !
The King turned pale , and the other Princes stood silent and sorrowful , for nobody could deny that this was the most marvelous piece of muslin that was to be found in the world .
Presently the King turned to his sons , and said , with a deep sigh : `` Nothing could console me more in my old age than to realize your willingness to gratify my wishes .
Go then once more , and whoever at the end of a year can bring back the loveliest princess shall be married to her , and shall , without further delay , receive the crown , for my successor must certainly be married . ''
The Prince considered that he had earned the kingdom fairly twice over but still he was too well bred to argue about it , so he just went back to his gorgeous chariot , and , surrounded by his escort , returned to the White Cat faster than he had come .
This time she was expecting him , the path was strewn with flowers , and a thousand braziers were burning scented woods which perfumed the air .
Seated in a gallery from which she could see his arrival , the White Cat waited for him .
`` Well , King 's son , '' she said , `` here you are once more , without a crown . ''
`` Madam , '' said he , `` thanks to your generosity I have earned one twice over ; but the fact is that my father is so loth to part with it that it would be no pleasure to me to take it . ''
`` Never mind , '' she answered , `` it 's just as well to try and deserve it .
As you must take back a lovely princess with you next time I will be on the look-out for one for you .
In the meantime let us enjoy ourselves ; to-night I have ordered a battle between my cats and the river rats on purpose to amuse you . ''
So this year slipped away even more pleasantly than the preceding ones .
Sometimes the Prince could not help asking the White Cat how it was she could talk .
`` Perhaps you are a fairy , '' he said .
`` Or has some enchanter changed you into a cat ? ''
But she only gave him answers that told him nothing .
Days go by so quickly when one is very happy that it is certain the Prince would never have thought of its being time to go back , when one evening as they sat together the White Cat said to him that if he wanted to take a lovely princess home with him the next day he must be prepared to do what she told him .
`` Take this sword , '' she said , `` and cut off my head ! ''
`` I ! ''
cried the Prince , `` I cut off your head !
Blanchette darling , how could I do it ? ''
`` I entreat you to do as I tell you , King 's son , '' she replied .
The tears came into the Prince 's eyes as he begged her to ask him anything but that -- to set him any task she pleased as a proof of his devotion , but to spare him the grief of killing his dear Pussy .
But nothing he could say altered her determination , and at last he drew his sword , and desperately , with a trembling hand , cut off the little white head .
But imagine his astonishment and delight when suddenly a lovely princess stood before him , and , while he was still speechless with amazement , the door opened and a goodly company of knights and ladies entered , each carrying a cat 's skin !
They hastened with every sign of joy to the Princess , kissing her hand and congratulating her on being once more restored to her natural shape .
She received them graciously , but after a few minutes begged that they would leave her alone with the Prince , to whom she said : `` You see , Prince , that you were right in supposing me to be no ordinary cat .
My father reigned over six kingdoms .
The Queen , my mother , whom he loved dearly , had a passion for traveling and exploring , and when I was only a few weeks old she obtained his permission to visit a certain mountain of which she had heard many marvelous tales , and set out , taking with her a number of her attendants .
On the way they had to pass near an old castle belonging to the fairies .
Nobody had ever been into it , but it was reported to be full of the most wonderful things , and my mother remembered to have heard that the fairies had in their garden such fruits as were to be seen and tasted nowhere else .
She began to wish to try them for herself , and turned her steps in the direction of the garden .
On arriving at the door , which blazed with gold and jewels , she ordered her servants to knock loudly , but it was useless ; it seemed as if all the inhabitants of the castle must be asleep or dead .
Now the more difficult it became to obtain the fruit , the more the Queen was determined that have it she would .
So she ordered that they should bring ladders , and get over the wall into the garden ; but though the wall did not look very high , and they tied the ladders together to make them very long , it was quite impossible to get to the top .
`` The Queen was in despair , but as night was coming on she ordered that they should encamp just where they were , and went to bed herself , feeling quite ill , she was so disappointed .
In the middle of the night she was suddenly awakened , and saw to her surprise a tiny , ugly old woman seated by her bedside , who said to her : '' ' I must say that we consider it somewhat troublesome of your Majesty to insist upon tasting our fruit ; but to save you annoyance , my sisters and I will consent to give you as much as you can carry away , on one condition -- that is , that you shall give us your little daughter to bring up as our own . ' ''
` Ah !
my dear madam , ' cried the Queen , ` is there nothing else that you will take for the fruit ?
I will give you my kingdoms willingly . ' ''
` No , ' replied the old fairy , ` we will have nothing but your little daughter .
She shall be as happy as the day is long , and we will give her everything that is worth having in fairy-land , but you must not see her again until she is married . ' ''
` Though it is a hard condition , ' said the Queen , ' I consent , for I shall certainly die if I do not taste the fruit , and so I should lose my little daughter either way . '
`` So the old fairy led her into the castle , and , though it was still the middle of the night , the Queen could see plainly that it was far more beautiful than she had been told , which you can easily believe , Prince , '' said the White Cat , `` when I tell you that it was this castle that we are now in .
` Will you gather the fruit yourself , Queen ? '
said the old fairy , ` or shall I call it to come to you ? ' '' '
I beg you to let me see it come when it is called , ' cried the Queen ; ` that will be something quite new . '
The old fairy whistled twice , then she cried : '' ` Apricots , peaches , nectarines , cherries , plums , pears , melons , grapes , apples , oranges , lemons , gooseberries , strawberries , raspberries , come ! '
`` And in an instant they came tumbling in one over another , and yet they were neither dusty nor spoilt , and the Queen found them quite as good as she had fancied them .
You see they grew upon fairy trees .
`` The old fairy gave her golden baskets in which to take the fruit away , and it was as much as four hundred mules could carry .
Then she reminded the Queen of her agreement , and led her back to the camp , and next morning she went back to her kingdom , but before she had gone very far she began to repent of her bargain , and when the King came out to meet her she looked so sad that he guessed that something had happened , and asked what was the matter .
At first the Queen was afraid to tell him , but when , as soon as they reached the palace , five frightful little dwarfs were sent by the fairies to fetch me , she was obliged to confess what she had promised .
The King was very angry , and had the Queen and myself shut up in a great tower and safely guarded , and drove the little dwarfs out of his kingdom ; but the fairies sent a great dragon who ate up all the people he met , and whose breath burnt up everything as he passed through the country ; and at last , after trying in vain to rid himself of this monster , the King , to save his subjects , was obliged to consent that I should be given up to the fairies .
This time they came themselves to fetch me , in a chariot of pearl drawn by sea-horses , followed by the dragon , who was led with chains of diamonds .
My cradle was placed between the old fairies , who loaded me with caresses , and away we whirled through the air to a tower which they had built on purpose for me .
There I grew up surrounded with everything that was beautiful and rare , and learning everything that is ever taught to a princess , but without any companions but a parrot and a little dog , who could both talk ; and receiving every day a visit from one of the old fairies , who came mounted upon the dragon .
One day , however , as I sat at my window I saw a handsome young prince , who seemed to have been hunting in the forest which surrounded my prison , and who was standing and looking up at me .
When he saw that I observed him he saluted me with great deference .
You can imagine that I was delighted to have some one new to talk to , and in spite of the height of my window our conversation was prolonged till night fell , then my prince reluctantly bade me farewell .
But after that he came again many times and at last I consented to marry him , but the question was how was I to escape from my tower .
The fairies always supplied me with flax for my spinning , and by great diligence I made enough cord for a ladder that would reach to the foot of the tower ; but , alas !
just as my prince was helping me to descend it , the crossest and ugliest of the old fairies flew in .
Before he had time to defend himself my unhappy lover was swallowed up by the dragon .
As for me , the fairies , furious at having their plans defeated , for they intended me to marry the king of the dwarfs , and I utterly refused , changed me into a white cat .
When they brought me here I found all the lords and ladies of my father 's court awaiting me under the same enchantment , while the people of lesser rank had been made invisible , all but their hands .
`` As they laid me under the enchantment the fairies told me all my history , for until then I had quite believed that I was their child , and warned me that my only chance of regaining my natural form was to win the love of a prince who resembled in every way my unfortunate lover .
`` And you have won it , lovely Princess , '' interrupted the Prince .
`` You are indeed wonderfully like him , '' resumed the Princess -- `` in voice , in features , and everything ; and if you really love me all my troubles will be at an end . ''
`` And mine too , '' cried the Prince , throwing himself at her feet , `` if you will consent to marry me . ''
`` I love you already better than anyone in the world , '' she said ; `` but now it is time to go back to your father , and we shall hear what he says about it . ''
So the Prince gave her his hand and led her out , and they mounted the chariot together ; it was even more splendid than before , and so was the whole company .
Even the horses ' shoes were of rubies with diamond nails , and I suppose that is the first time such a thing was ever seen .
As the Princess was as kind and clever as she was beautiful , you may imagine what a delightful journey the Prince found it , for everything the Princess said seemed to him quite charming .
When they came near the castle where the brothers were to meet , the Princess got into a chair carried by four of the guards ; it was hewn out of one splendid crystal , and had silken curtains , which she drew round her that she might not be seen .
The Prince saw his brothers walking upon the terrace , each with a lovely princess , and they came to meet him , asking if he had also found a wife .
He said that he had found something much rarer -- a white cat !
At which they laughed very much , and asked him if he was afraid of being eaten up by mice in the palace .
And then they set out together for the town .
Each prince and princess rode in a splendid carriage ; the horses were decked with plumes of feathers , and glittered with gold .
After them came the youngest prince , and last of all the crystal chair , at which everybody looked with admiration and curiosity .
When the courtiers saw them coming they hastened to tell the King .
`` Are the ladies beautiful ? ''
he asked anxiously .
And when they answered that nobody had ever before seen such lovely princesses he seemed quite annoyed .
However , he received them graciously , but found it impossible to choose between them .
Then turning to his youngest son he said : `` Have you come back alone , after all ? ''
`` Your Majesty , '' replied the Prince , `` will find in that crystal chair a little white cat , which has such soft paws , and mews so prettily , that I am sure you will be charmed with it . ''
The King smiled , and went to draw back the curtains himself , but at a touch from the Princess the crystal shivered into a thousand splinters , and there she stood in all her beauty ; her fair hair floated over her shoulders and was crowned with flowers , and her softly falling robe was of the purest white .
She saluted the King gracefully , while a murmur of admiration rose from all around .
`` Sire , '' she said , `` I am not come to deprive you of the throne you fill so worthily .
I have already six kingdoms , permit me to bestow one upon you , and upon each of your sons .
I ask nothing but your friendship , and your consent to my marriage with your youngest son ; we shall still have three kingdoms left for ourselves . ''
The King and all the courtiers could not conceal their joy and astonishment , and the marriage of the three Princes was celebrated at once .
The festivities lasted several months , and then each king and queen departed to their own kingdom and lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- La Chatte blanche .
Par Madame la Comtesse d'Aulnoy .
THE WATER-LILY .
THE GOLD-SPINNERS Once upon a time , in a large forest , there lived an old woman and three maidens .
They were all three beautiful , but the youngest was the fairest .
Their hut was quite hidden by trees , and none saw their beauty but the sun by day , and the moon by night , and the eyes of the stars .
The old woman kept the girls hard at work , from morning till night , spinning gold flax into yarn , and when one distaff was empty another was given them , so they had no rest .
The thread had to be fine and even , and when done was locked up in a secret chamber by the old woman , who twice or thrice every summer went a journey .
Before she went she gave out work for each day of her absence , and always returned in the night , so that the girls never saw what she brought back with her , neither would she tell them whence the gold flax came , nor what it was to be used for .
Now , when the time came round for the old woman to set out on one of these journeys , she gave each maiden work for six days , with the usual warning : `` Children , do n't let your eyes wander , and on no account speak to a man , for , if you do , your thread will lose its brightness , and misfortunes of all kinds will follow . ''
They laughed at this oft-repeated caution , saying to each other : `` How can our gold thread lose its brightness , and have we any chance of speaking to a man ? ''
On the third day after the old woman 's departure a young prince , hunting in the forest , got separated from his companions , and completely lost .
Weary of seeking his way , he flung himself down under a tree , leaving his horse to browse at will , and fell asleep .
The sun had set when he awoke and began once more to try and find his way out of the forest .
At last he perceived a narrow foot-path , which he eagerly followed and found that it led him to a small hut .
The maidens , who were sitting at the door of their hut for coolness , saw him approaching , and the two elder were much alarmed , for they remembered the old woman 's warning ; but the youngest said : `` Never before have I seen anyone like him ; let me have one look . ''
They entreated her to come in , but , seeing that she would not , left her , and the Prince , coming up , courteously greeted the maiden , and told her he had lost his way in the forest and was both hungry and weary .
She set food before him , and was so delighted with his conversation that she forgot the old woman 's caution , and lingered for hours .
In the meantime the Prince 's companions sought him far and wide , but to no purpose , so they sent two messengers to tell the sad news to the King , who immediately ordered a regiment of cavalry and one of infantry to go and look for him .
After three days ' search , they found the hut .
The Prince was still sitting by the door and had been so happy in the maiden 's company that the time had seemed like a single hour .
Before leaving he promised to return and fetch her to his father 's court , where he would make her his bride .
When he had gone , she sat down to her wheel to make up for lost time , but was dismayed to find that her thread had lost all its brightness .
Her heart beat fast and she wept bitterly , for she remembered the old woman 's warning and knew not what misfortune might now befall her .
The old woman returned in the night and knew by the tarnished thread what had happened in her absence .
She was furiously angry and told the maiden that she had brought down misery both on herself and on the Prince .
The maiden could not rest for thinking of this .
At last she could bear it no longer , and resolved to seek help from the Prince .
As a child she had learned to understand the speech of birds , and this was now of great use to her , for , seeing a raven pluming itself on a pine bough , she cried softly to it : `` Dear bird , cleverest of all birds , as well as swiftest on wing , wilt thou help me ? ''
`` How can I help thee ? ''
asked the raven .
She answered : `` Fly away , until thou comest to a splendid town , where stands a king 's palace ; seek out the king 's son and tell him that a great misfortune has befallen me . ''
Then she told the raven how her thread had lost its brightness , how terribly angry the old woman was , and how she feared some great disaster .
The raven promised faithfully to do her bidding , and , spreading its wings , flew away .
The maiden now went home and worked hard all day at winding up the yarn her elder sisters had spun , for the old woman would let her spin no longer .
Toward evening she heard the raven 's `` craa , craa , '' from the pine tree and eagerly hastened thither to hear the answer .
By great good fortune the raven had found a wind wizard 's son in the palace garden , who understood the speech of birds , and to him he had entrusted the message .
When the Prince heard it , he was very sorrowful , and took counsel with his friends how to free the maiden .
Then he said to the wind wizard 's son : `` Beg the raven to fly quickly back to the maiden and tell her to be ready on the ninth night , for then will I come and fetch her away . ''
The wind wizard 's son did this , and the raven flew so swiftly that it reached the hut that same evening .
The maiden thanked the bird heartily and went home , telling no one what she had heard .
As the ninth night drew near she became very unhappy , for she feared lest some terrible mischance should arise and ruin all .
On this night she crept quietly out of the house and waited trembling at some little distance from the hut .
Presently she heard the muffled tramp of horses , and soon the armed troop appeared , led by the Prince , who had prudently marked all the trees beforehand , in order to know the way .
When he saw the maiden he sprang from his horse , lifted her into the saddle , and then , mounting behind , rode homeward .
The moon shone so brightly that they had no difficulty in seeing the marked trees .
By and by the coming of dawn loosened the tongues of all the birds , and , had the Prince only known what they were saying , or the maiden been listening , they might have been spared much sorrow , but they were thinking only of each other , and when they came out of the forest the sun was high in the heavens .
Next morning , when the youngest girl did not come to her work , the old woman asked where she was .
The sisters pretended not to know , but the old woman easily guessed what had happened , and , as she was in reality a wicked witch , determined to punish the fugitives .
Accordingly , she collected nine different kinds of enchanters ' nightshade , added some salt , which she first bewitched , and , doing all up in a cloth into the shape of a fluffy ball , sent it after them on the wings of the wind , saying : `` Whirlwind !
-- mother of the wind !
Lend thy aid ` gainst her who sinned !
Carry with thee this magic ball .
Cast her from his arms for ever , Bury her in the rippling river . ''
At midday the Prince and his men came to a deep river , spanned by so narrow a bridge that only one rider could cross at a time .
The horse on which the Prince and the maiden were riding had just reached the middle when the magic ball flew by .
The horse in its fright suddenly reared , and before anyone could stop it flung the maiden into the swift current below .
The Prince tried to jump in after her , but his men held him back , and in spite of his struggles led him home , where for six weeks he shut himself up in a secret chamber , and would neither eat nor drink , so great was his grief .
At last he became so ill his life was despaired of , and in great alarm the King caused all the wizards of his country to be summoned .
But none could cure him .
At last the wind wizard 's son said to the King : `` Send for the old wizard from Finland he knows more than all the wizards of your kingdom put together . ''
A messenger was at once sent to Finland , and a week later the old wizard himself arrived on the wings of the wind .
`` Honored King , '' said the wizard , `` the wind has blown this illness upon your son , and a magic ball has snatched away his beloved .
This it is which makes him grieve so constantly .
Let the wind blow upon him that it may blow away his sorrow . ''
Then the King made his son go out into the wind , and he gradually recovered and told his father all .
`` Forget the maiden , '' said the King , `` and take another bride '' ; but the Prince said he could never love another .
A year afterward he came suddenly upon the bridge where his beloved met her death .
As he recalled the misfortune he wept bitterly , and would have given all he possessed to have her once more alive .
In the midst of his grief he thought he heard a voice singing , and looked round , but could see no one .
Then he heard the voice again , and it said : `` Alas !
bewitched and all forsaken , 'T is I must lie for ever here !
My beloved no thought has taken To free his bride , that was so dear . ''
He was greatly astonished , sprang from his horse , and looked everywhere to see if no one were hidden under the bridge ; but no one was there .
Then he noticed a yellow water-lily floating on the surface of the water , half hidden by its broad leaves ; but flowers do not sing , and in great surprise he waited , hoping to hear more .
Then again the voice sang : `` Alas !
bewitched and all forsaken , 'T is I must lie for ever here !
My beloved no thought has taken To free his bride , that was so dear . ''
The Prince suddenly remembered the gold-spinners , and said to himself : `` If I ride thither , who knows but that they could explain this to me ? ''
He at once rode to the hut , and found the two maidens at the fountain .
He told them what had befallen their sister the year before , and how he had twice heard a strange song , but yet could see no singer .
They said that the yellow water-lily could be none other than their sister , who was not dead , but transformed by the magic ball .
Before he went to bed , the eldest made a cake of magic herbs , which she gave him to eat .
In the night he dreamed that he was living in the forest and could understand all that the birds said to each other .
Next morning he told this to the maidens , and they said that the charmed cake had caused it , and advised him to listen well to the birds , and see what they could tell him , and when he had recovered his bride they begged him to return and deliver them from their wretched bondage .
Having promised this , he joyfully returned home , and as he was riding through the forest he could perfectly understand all that the birds said .
He heard a thrush say to a magpie : `` How stupid men are !
they can not understand the simplest thing .
It is now quite a year since the maiden was transformed into a water-lily , and , though she sings so sadly that anyone going over the bridge must hear her , yet no one comes to her aid .
Her former bridegroom rode over it a few days ago and heard her singing , but was no wiser than the rest . ''
`` And he is to blame for all her misfortunes , '' added the magpie .
`` If he heeds only the words of men she will remain a flower for ever .
She were soon delivered were the matter only laid before the old wizard of Finland . ''
After hearing this , the Prince wondered how he could get a message conveyed to Finland .
He heard one swallow say to another : `` Come , let us fly to Finland ; we can build better nests there . ''
`` Stop , kind friends ! ''
cried the Prince .
`` Will you do something for me ? ''
The birds consented , and he said : `` Take a thousand greetings from me to the wizard of Finland , and ask him how I may restore a maiden transformed into a flower to her own form . ''
The swallows flew away , and the Prince rode on to the bridge .
There he waited , hoping to hear the song .
But he heard nothing but the rushing of the water and the moaning of the wind , and , disappointed , rode home .
Shortly after , he was sitting in the garden , thinking that the swallows must have forgotten his message , when he saw an eagle flying above him .
The bird gradually descended until it perched on a tree close to the Prince and said : `` The wizard of Finland greets thee and bids me say that thou mayest free the maiden thus : Go to the river and smear thyself all over with mud ; then say : ` From a man into a crab , ' and thou wilt become a crab .
Plunge boldly into the water , swim as close as thou canst to the water-lily 's roots , and loosen them from the mud and reeds .
This done , fasten thy claws into the roots and rise with them to the surface .
Let the water flow all over the flower , and drift with the current until thou comest to a mountain ash tree on the left bank .
There is near it a large stone .
Stop there and say : ` From a crab into a man , from a water-lily into a maiden , ' and ye both will be restored to your own forms . ''
Full of doubt and fear , the Prince let some time pass before he was bold enough to attempt to rescue the maiden .
Then a crow said to him : `` Why dost thou hesitate ?
The old wizard has not told thee wrong , neither have the birds deceived thee ; hasten and dry the maiden 's tears . ''
`` Nothing worse than death can befall me , '' thought the Prince , `` and death is better than endless sorrow . ''
So he mounted his horse and went to the bridge .
Again he heard the water-lily 's lament , and , hesitating no longer , smeared himself all over with mud , and , saying : `` From a man into a crab , '' plunged into the river .
For one moment the water hissed in his ears , and then all was silent .
He swam up to the plant and began to loosen its roots , but so firmly were they fixed in the mud and reeds that this took him a long time .
He then grasped them and rose to the surface , letting the water flow over the flower .
The current carried them down the stream , but nowhere could he see the mountain ash .
At last he saw it , and close by the large stone .
Here he stopped and said : `` From a crab into a man , from a water-lily into a maiden , '' and to his delight found himself once more a prince , and the maiden was by his side .
She was ten times more beautiful than before , and wore a magnificent pale yellow robe , sparkling with jewels .
She thanked him for having freed her from the cruel witch 's power , and willingly consented to marry him .
But when they came to the bridge where he had left his horse it was nowhere to be seen , for , though the Prince thought he had been a crab only a few hours , he had in reality been under the water for more than ten days .
While they were wondering how they should reach his father 's court , they saw a splendid coach driven by six gaily caparisoned horses coming along the bank .
In this they drove to the palace .
The King and Queen were at church , weeping for their son , whom they had long mourned for dead .
Great was their delight and astonishment when the Prince entered , leading the beautiful maiden by the hand .
The wedding was at once celebrated and there was feasting and merry-making throughout the kingdom for six weeks .
Some time afterward the Prince and his bride were sitting in the garden , when a crow said to them : `` Ungrateful creatures !
Have you forgotten the two poor maidens who helped you in your distress ?
Must they spin gold flax for ever ?
Have no pity on the old witch .
The three maidens are princesses , whom she stole away when they were children together , with all the silver utensils , which she turned into gold flax .
Poison were her fittest punishment . ''
The Prince was ashamed of having forgotten his promise and set out at once , and by great good fortune reached the hut when the old woman was away .
The maidens had dreamed that he was coming , and were ready to go with him , but first they made a cake in which they put poison , and left it on a table where the old woman was likely to see it when she returned .
She did see it , and thought it looked so tempting that she greedily ate it up and at once died .
In the secret chamber were found fifty wagon-loads of gold flax , and as much more was discovered buried .
The hut was razed to the ground , and the Prince and his bride and her two sisters lived happily ever after .
THE TERRIBLE HEAD Once upon a time there was a king whose only child was a girl .
Now the King had been very anxious to have a son , or at least a grandson , to come after him , but he was told by a prophet whom he consulted that his own daughter 's son should kill him .
This news terrified him so much that he determined never to let his daughter be married , for he thought it was better to have no grandson at all than to be killed by his grandson .
He therefore called his workmen together , and bade them dig a deep round hole in the earth , and then he had a prison of brass built in the hole , and then , when it was finished , he locked up his daughter .
No man ever saw her , and she never saw even the fields and the sea , but only the sky and the sun , for there was a wide open window in the roof of the house of brass .
So the Princess would sit looking up at the sky , and watching the clouds float across , and wondering whether she should ever get out of her prison .
Now one day it seemed to her that the sky opened above her , and a great shower of shining gold fell through the window in the roof , and lay glittering in her room .
Not very long after , the Princess had a baby , a little boy , but when the King her father heard of it he was very angry and afraid , for now the child was born that should be his death .
Yet , cowardly as he was , he had not quite the heart to kill the Princess and her baby outright , but he had them put in a huge brass-bound chest and thrust out to sea , that they might either be drowned or starved , or perhaps come to a country where they would be out of his way .
So the Princess and the baby floated and drifted in the chest on the sea all day and night , but the baby was not afraid of the waves nor of the wind , for he did not know that they could hurt him , and he slept quite soundly .
And the Princess sang a song over him , and this was her song : `` Child , my child , how sound you sleep !
Though your mother 's care is deep , You can lie with heart at rest In the narrow brass-bound chest ; In the starless night and drear You can sleep , and never hear Billows breaking , and the cry Of the night-wind wandering by ; In soft purple mantle sleeping With your little face on mine , Hearing not your mother weeping And the breaking of the brine . ''
Well , the daylight came at last , and the great chest was driven by the waves against the shore of an island .
There the brass-bound chest lay , with the Princess and her baby in it , till a man of that country came past , and saw it , and dragged it on to the beach , and when he had broken it open , behold !
there was a beautiful lady and a little boy .
So he took them home , and was very kind to them , and brought up the boy till he was a young man .
Now when the boy had come to his full strength the King of that country fell in love with his mother , and wanted to marry her , but he knew that she would never part from her boy .
So he thought of a plan to get rid of the boy , and this was his plan : A great Queen of a country not far off was going to be married , and this king said that all his subjects must bring him wedding presents to give her .
And he made a feast to which he invited them all , and they all brought their presents ; some brought gold cups , and some brought necklaces of gold and amber , and some brought beautiful horses ; but the boy had nothing , though he was the son of a princess , for his mother had nothing to give him .
Then the rest of the company began to laugh at him , and the King said : `` If you have nothing else to give , at least you might go and fetch the Terrible Head . ''
The boy was proud , and spoke without thinking : `` Then I swear that I will bring the Terrible Head , if it may be brought by a living man .
But of what head you speak I know not . ''
Then they told him that somewhere , a long way off , there dwelt three dreadful sisters , monstrous ogrish women , with golden wings and claws of brass , and with serpents growing on their heads instead of hair .
Now these women were so awful to look on that whoever saw them was turned at once into stone .
And two of them could not be put to death , but the youngest , whose face was very beautiful , could be killed , and it was her head that the boy had promised to bring .
You may imagine it was no easy adventure .
When he heard all this he was perhaps sorry that he had sworn to bring the Terrible Head , but he was determined to keep his oath .
So he went out from the feast , where they all sat drinking and making merry , and he walked alone beside the sea in the dusk of the evening , at the place where the great chest , with himself and his mother in it , had been cast ashore .
There he went and sat down on a rock , looking toward the sea , and wondering how he should begin to fulfill his vow .
Then he felt some one touch him on the shoulder ; and he turned , and saw a young man like a king 's son , having with him a tall and beautiful lady , whose blue eyes shone like stars .
They were taller than mortal men , and the young man had a staff in his hand with golden wings on it , and two golden serpents twisted round it , and he had wings on his cap and on his shoes .
He spoke to the boy , and asked him why he was so unhappy ; and the boy told him how he had sworn to bring the Terrible Head , and knew not how to begin to set about the adventure .
Then the beautiful lady also spoke , and said that `` it was a foolish oath and a hasty , but it might be kept if a brave man had sworn it . ''
Then the boy answered that he was not afraid , if only he knew the way .
Then the lady said that to kill the dreadful woman with the golden wings and the brass claws , and to cut off her head , he needed three things : first , a Cap of Darkness , which would make him invisible when he wore it ; next , a Sword of Sharpness , which would cleave iron at one blow ; and last , the Shoes of Swiftness , with which he might fly in the air .
The boy answered that he knew not where such things were to be procured , and that , wanting them , he could only try and fail .
Then the young man , taking off his own shoes , said : `` First , you shall use these shoes till you have taken the Terrible Head , and then you must give them back to me .
And with these shoes you will fly as fleet as a bird , or a thought , over the land or over the waves of the sea , wherever the shoes know the way .
But there are ways which they do not know , roads beyond the borders of the world .
And these roads have you to travel .
Now first you must go to the Three Gray Sisters , who live far off in the north , and are so very cold that they have only one eye and one tooth among the three .
You must creep up close to them , and as one of them passes the eye to the other you must seize it , and refuse to give it up till they have told you the way to the Three Fairies of the Garden , and they will give you the Cap of Darkness and the Sword of Sharpness , and show you how to wing beyond this world to the land of the Terrible Head . ''
Then the beautiful lady said : `` Go forth at once , and do not return to say good-by to your mother , for these things must be done quickly , and the Shoes of Swiftness themselves will carry you to the land of the Three Gray Sisters -- for they know the measure of that way . ''
So the boy thanked her , and he fastened on the Shoes of Swiftness , and turned to say good-by to the young man and the lady .
But , behold !
they had vanished , he knew not how or where !
Then he leaped in the air to try the Shoes of Swiftness , and they carried him more swiftly than the wind , over the warm blue sea , over the happy lands of the south , over the northern peoples who drank mare 's milk and lived in great wagons , wandering after their flocks .
Across the wide rivers , where the wild fowl rose and fled before him , and over the plains and the cold North Sea he went , over the fields of snow and the hills of ice , to a place where the world ends , and all water is frozen , and there are no men , nor beasts , nor any green grass .
There in a blue cave of the ice he found the Three Gray Sisters , the oldest of living things .
Their hair was as white as the snow , and their flesh of an icy blue , and they mumbled and nodded in a kind of dream , and their frozen breath hung round them like a cloud .
Now the opening of the cave in the ice was narrow , and it was not easy to pass in without touching one of the Gray Sisters .
But , floating on the Shoes of Swiftness , the boy just managed to steal in , and waited till one of the sisters said to another , who had their one eye : `` Sister , what do you see ?
do you see old times coming back ? ''
`` No , sister . ''
`` Then give me the eye , for perhaps I can see farther than you . ''
Then the first sister passed the eye to the second , but as the second groped for it the boy caught it cleverly out of her hand .
`` Where is the eye , sister ? ''
said the second gray woman .
`` You have taken it yourself , sister , '' said the first gray woman .
`` Have you lost the eye , sister ?
have you lost the eye ? ''
said the third gray woman ; `` shall we never find it again , and see old times coming back ? ''
Then the boy slipped from behind them out of the cold cave into the air , and he laughed aloud .
When the gray women heard that laugh they began to weep , for now they knew that a stranger had robbed them , and that they could not help themselves , and their tears froze as they fell from the hollows where no eyes were , and rattled on the icy ground of the cave .
Then they began to implore the boy to give them their eye back again , and he could not help being sorry for them , they were so pitiful .
But he said he would never give them the eye till they told him the way to the Fairies of the Garden .
Then they wrung their hands miserably , for they guessed why he had come , and how he was going to try to win the Terrible Head .
Now the Dreadful Women were akin to the Three Gray Sisters , and it was hard for them to tell the boy the way .
But at last they told him to keep always south , and with the land on his left and the sea on his right , till he reached the Island of the Fairies of the Garden .
Then he gave them back the eye , and they began to look out once more for the old times coming back again .
But the boy flew south between sea and land , keeping the land always on his left hand , till he saw a beautiful island crowned with flowering trees .
There he alighted , and there he found the Three Fairies of the Garden .
They were like three very beautiful young women , dressed one in green , one in white , and one in red , and they were dancing and singing round an apple tree with apples of gold , and this was their song : THE SONG OF THE WESTERN FAIRIES Round and round the apples of gold , Round and round dance we ; Thus do we dance from the days of old About the enchanted tree ; Round , and round , and round we go , While the spring is green , or the stream shall flow , Or the wind shall stir the sea !
There is none may taste of the golden fruit Till the golden new time come Many a tree shall spring from shoot , Many a blossom be withered at root , Many a song be dumb ; Broken and still shall be many a lute Or ever the new times come !
Round and round the tree of gold , Round and round dance we , So doth the great world spin from of old , Summer and winter , and fire and cold , Song that is sung , and tale that is told , Even as we dance , that fold and unfold Round the stem of the fairy tree !
These grave dancing fairies were very unlike the Grey Women , and they were glad to see the boy , and treated him kindly .
Then they asked him why he had come ; and he told them how he was sent to find the Sword of Sharpness and the Cap of Darkness .
And the fairies gave him these , and a wallet , and a shield , and belted the sword , which had a diamond blade , round his waist , and the cap they set on his head , and told him that now even they could not see him though they were fairies .
Then he took it off , and they each kissed him and wished him good fortune , and then they began again their eternal dance round the golden tree , for it is their business to guard it till the new times come , or till the world 's ending .
So the boy put the cap on his head , and hung the wallet round his waist , and the shining shield on his shoulders , and flew beyond the great river that lies coiled like a serpent round the whole world .
And by the banks of that river , there he found the three Terrible Women all asleep beneath a poplar tree , and the dead poplar leaves lay all about them .
Their golden wings were folded and their brass claws were crossed , and two of them slept with their hideous heads beneath their wings like birds , and the serpents in their hair writhed out from under the feathers of gold .
But the youngest slept between her two sisters , and she lay on her back , with her beautiful sad face turned to the sky ; and though she slept her eyes were wide open .
If the boy had seen her he would have been changed into stone by the terror and the pity of it , she was so awful ; but he had thought of a plan for killing her without looking on her face .
As soon as he caught sight of the three from far off he took his shining shield from his shoulders , and held it up like a mirror , so that he saw the Dreadful Women reflected in it , and did not see the Terrible Head itself .
Then he came nearer and nearer , till he reckoned that he was within a sword 's stroke of the youngest , and he guessed where he should strike a back blow behind him .
Then he drew the Sword of Sharpness and struck once , and the Terrible Head was cut from the shoulders of the creature , and the blood leaped out and struck him like a blow .
But he thrust the Terrible Head into his wallet , and flew away without looking behind .
Then the two Dreadful Sisters who were left wakened , and rose in the air like great birds ; and though they could not see him because of his Cap of Darkness , they flew after him up the wind , following by the scent through the clouds , like hounds hunting in a wood .
They came so close that he could hear the clatter of their golden wings , and their shrieks to each other : '' here , here , '' '' no , there ; this way he went , '' as they chased him .
But the Shoes of Swiftness flew too fast for them , and at last their cries and the rattle of their wings died away as he crossed the great river that runs round the world .
Now when the horrible creatures were far in the distance , and the boy found himself on the right side of the river , he flew straight eastward , trying to seek his own country .
But as he looked down from the air he saw a very strange sight -- a beautiful girl chained to a stake at the high-water mark of the sea .
The girl was so frightened or so tired that she was only prevented from falling by the iron chain about her waist , and there she hung , as if she were dead .
The boy was very sorry for her and flew down and stood beside her .
When he spoke she raised her head and looked round , but his voice only seemed to frighten her .
Then he remembered that he was wearing the Cap of Darkness , and that she could only hear him , not see him .
So he took it off , and there he stood before her , the handsomest young man she had ever seen in all her life , with short curly yellow hair , and blue eyes , and a laughing face .
And he thought her the most beautiful girl in the world .
So first with one blow of the Sword of Sharpness he cut the iron chain that bound her , and then he asked her what she did there , and why men treated her so cruelly .
And she told him that she was the daughter of the King of that country , and that she was tied there to be eaten by a monstrous beast out of the sea ; for the beast came and devoured a girl every day .
Now the lot had fallen on her ; and as she was just saying this a long fierce head of a cruel sea creature rose out of the waves and snapped at the girl .
But the beast had been too greedy and too hurried , so he missed his aim the first time .
Before he could rise and bite again the boy had whipped the Terrible Head out of his wallet and held it up .
And when the sea beast leaped out once more its eyes fell on the head , and instantly it was turned into a stone .
And the stone beast is there on the sea-coast to this day .
Then the boy and the girl went to the palace of the King , her father , where everyone was weeping for her death , and they could hardly believe their eyes when they saw her come back well .
And the King and Queen made much of the boy , and could not contain themselves for delight when they found he wanted to marry their daughter .
So the two were married with the most splendid rejoicings , and when they had passed some time at court they went home in a ship to the boy 's own country .
For he could not carry his bride through the air , so he took the Shoes of Swiftness , and the Cap of Darkness , and the Sword of Sharpness up to a lonely place in the hills .
There he left them , and there they were found by the man and woman who had met him at home beside the sea , and had helped him to start on his journey .
When this had been done the boy and his bride set forth for home , and landed at the harbor of his native land .
But whom should he meet in the very street of the town but his own mother , flying for her life from the wicked King , who now wished to kill her because he found that she would never marry him !
For if she had liked the King ill before , she liked him far worse now that he had caused her son to disappear so suddenly .
She did not know , of course , where the boy had gone , but thought the King had slain him secretly .
So now she was running for her very life , and the wicked King was following her with a sword in his hand .
Then , behold !
she ran into her son 's very arms , but he had only time to kiss her and step in front of her , when the King struck at him with his sword .
The boy caught the blow on his shield , and cried to the King : `` I swore to bring you the Terrible Head , and see how I keep my oath ! ''
Then he drew forth the head from his wallet , and when the King 's eyes fell on it , instantly he was turned into stone , just as he stood there with his sword lifted !
Now all the people rejoiced , because the wicked King should rule them no longer .
And they asked the boy to be their king , but he said no , he must take his mother home to her father 's house .
So the people chose for king the man who had been kind to his mother when first she was cast on the island in the great chest .
Presently the boy and his mother and his wife set sail for his mother 's own country , from which she had been driven so unkindly .
But on the way they stayed at the court of a king , and it happened that he was holding games , and giving prizes to the best runners , boxers , and quoit-throwers .
Then the boy would try his strength with the rest , but he threw the quoit so far that it went beyond what had ever been thrown before , and fell in the crowd , striking a man so that he died .
Now this man was no other than the father of the boy 's mother , who had fled away from his own kingdom for fear his grandson should find him and kill him after all .
Thus he was destroyed by his own cowardice and by chance , and thus the prophecy was fulfilled .
But the boy and his wife and his mother went back to the kingdom that was theirs , and lived long and happily after all their troubles .
THE STORY OF PRETTY GOLDILOCKS Once upon a time there was a princess who was the prettiest creature in the world .
And because she was so beautiful , and because her hair was like the finest gold , and waved and rippled nearly to the ground , she was called Pretty Goldilocks .
She always wore a crown of flowers , and her dresses were embroidered with diamonds and pearls , and everybody who saw her fell in love with her .
Now one of her neighbors was a young king who was not married .
He was very rich and handsome , and when he heard all that was said about Pretty Goldilocks , though he had never seen her , he fell so deeply in love with her that he could neither eat nor drink .
So he resolved to send an ambassador to ask her in marriage .
He had a splendid carriage made for his ambassador , and gave him more than a hundred horses and a hundred servants , and told him to be sure and bring the Princess back with him .
After he had started nothing else was talked of at Court , and the King felt so sure that the Princess would consent that he set his people to work at pretty dresses and splendid furniture , that they might be ready by the time she came .
Meanwhile , the ambassador arrived at the Princess 's palace and delivered his little message , but whether she happened to be cross that day , or whether the compliment did not please her , is not known .
She only answered that she was very much obliged to the King , but she had no wish to be married .
The ambassador set off sadly on his homeward way , bringing all the King 's presents back with him , for the Princess was too well brought up to accept the pearls and diamonds when she would not accept the King , so she had only kept twenty-five English pins that he might not be vexed .
When the ambassador reached the city , where the King was waiting impatiently , everybody was very much annoyed with him for not bringing the Princess , and the King cried like a baby , and nobody could console him .
Now there was at the Court a young man , who was more clever and handsome than anyone else .
He was called Charming , and everyone loved him , excepting a few envious people who were angry at his being the King 's favorite and knowing all the State secrets .
He happened to one day be with some people who were speaking of the ambassador 's return and saying that his going to the Princess had not done much good , when Charming said rashly : `` If the King had sent me to the Princess Goldilocks I am sure she would have come back with me . ''
His enemies at once went to the King and said : `` You will hardly believe , sire , what Charming has the audacity to say -- that if he had been sent to the Princess Goldilocks she would certainly have come back with him .
He seems to think that he is so much handsomer than you that the Princess would have fallen in love with him and followed him willingly . ''
The King was very angry when he heard this .
`` Ha , ha ! ''
said he ; `` does he laugh at my unhappiness , and think himself more fascinating than I am ?
Go , and let him be shut up in my great tower to die of hunger . ''
So the King 's guards went to fetch Charming , who had thought no more of his rash speech , and carried him off to prison with great cruelty .
The poor prisoner had only a little straw for his bed , and but for a little stream of water which flowed through the tower he would have died of thirst .
One day when he was in despair he said to himself : `` How can I have offended the King ?
I am his most faithful subject , and have done nothing against him . ''
The King chanced to be passing the tower and recognized the voice of his former favorite .
He stopped to listen in spite of Charming 's enemies , who tried to persuade him to have nothing more to do with the traitor .
But the King said : `` Be quiet , I wish to hear what he says . ''
And then he opened the tower door and called to Charming , who came very sadly and kissed the King 's hand , saying : `` What have I done , sire , to deserve this cruel treatment ? ''
`` You mocked me and my ambassador , '' said the King , `` and you said that if I had sent you for the Princess Goldilocks you would certainly have brought her back . ''
`` It is quite true , sire , '' replied Charming ; `` I should have drawn such a picture of you , and represented your good qualities in such a way , that I am certain the Princess would have found you irresistible .
But I can not see what there is in that to make you angry . ''
The King could not see any cause for anger either when the matter was presented to him in this light , and he began to frown very fiercely at the courtiers who had so misrepresented his favorite .
So he took Charming back to the palace with him , and after seeing that he had a very good supper he said to him : `` You know that I love Pretty Goldilocks as much as ever , her refusal has not made any difference to me ; but I do n't know how to make her change her mind ; I really should like to send you , to see if you can persuade her to marry me . ''
Charming replied that he was perfectly willing to go , and would set out the very next day .
`` But you must wait till I can get a grand escort for you , '' said the King .
But Charming said that he only wanted a good horse to ride , and the King , who was delighted at his being ready to start so promptly , gave him letters to the Princess , and bade him good speed .
It was on a Monday morning that he set out all alone upon his errand , thinking of nothing but how he could persuade the Princess Goldilocks to marry the King .
He had a writing-book in his pocket , and whenever any happy thought struck him he dismounted from his horse and sat down under the trees to put it into the harangue which he was preparing for the Princess , before he forgot it .
One day when he had started at the very earliest dawn , and was riding over a great meadow , he suddenly had a capital idea , and , springing from his horse , he sat down under a willow tree which grew by a little river .
When he had written it down he was looking round him , pleased to find himself in such a pretty place , when all at once he saw a great golden carp lying gasping and exhausted upon the grass .
In leaping after little flies she had thrown herself high upon the bank , where she had lain till she was nearly dead .
Charming had pity upon her , and , though he could n't help thinking that she would have been very nice for dinner , he picked her up gently and put her back into the water .
As soon as Dame Carp felt the refreshing coolness of the water she sank down joyfully to the bottom of the river , then , swimming up to the bank quite boldly , she said : `` I thank you , Charming , for the kindness you have done me .
You have saved my life ; one day I will repay you . ''
So saying , she sank down into the water again , leaving Charming greatly astonished at her politeness .
Another day , as he journeyed on , he saw a raven in great distress .
The poor bird was closely pursued by an eagle , which would soon have eaten it up , had not Charming quickly fitted an arrow to his bow and shot the eagle dead .
The raven perched upon a tree very joyfully .
`` Charming , '' said he , `` it was very generous of you to rescue a poor raven ; I am not ungrateful , some day I will repay you . ''
Charming thought it was very nice of the raven to say so , and went on his way .
Before the sun rose he found himself in a thick wood where it was too dark for him to see his path , and here he heard an owl crying as if it were in despair .
`` Hark ! ''
said he , `` that must be an owl in great trouble , I am sure it has gone into a snare '' ; and he began to hunt about , and presently found a great net which some bird-catchers had spread the night before .
`` What a pity it is that men do nothing but torment and persecute poor creatures which never do them any harm ! ''
said he , and he took out his knife and cut the cords of the net , and the owl flitted away into the darkness , but then turning , with one flicker of her wings , she came back to Charming and said : `` It does not need many words to tell you how great a service you have done me .
I was caught ; in a few minutes the fowlers would have been here -- without your help I should have been killed .
I am grateful , and one day I will repay you . ''
These three adventures were the only ones of any consequence that befell Charming upon his journey , and he made all the haste he could to reach the palace of the Princess Goldilocks .
When he arrived he thought everything he saw delightful and magnificent .
Diamonds were as plentiful as pebbles , and the gold and silver , the beautiful dresses , the sweetmeats and pretty things that were everywhere quite amazed him ; he thought to himself : `` If the Princess consents to leave all this , and come with me to marry the King , he may think himself lucky ! ''
Then he dressed himself carefully in rich brocade , with scarlet and white plumes , and threw a splendid embroidered scarf over his shoulder , and , looking as gay and as graceful as possible , he presented himself at the door of the palace , carrying in his arm a tiny pretty dog which he had bought on the way .
The guards saluted him respectfully , and a messenger was sent to the Princess to announce the arrival of Charming as ambassador of her neighbor the King .
`` Charming , '' said the Princess , `` the name promises well ; I have no doubt that he is good looking and fascinates everybody . ''
`` Indeed he does , madam , '' said all her maids of honor in one breath .
`` We saw him from the window of the garret where we were spinning flax , and we could do nothing but look at him as long as he was in sight . ''
`` Well to be sure , '' said the Princess , `` that 's how you amuse yourselves , is it ?
Looking at strangers out of the window !
Be quick and give me my blue satin embroidered dress , and comb out my golden hair .
Let somebody make me fresh garlands of flowers , and give me my high-heeled shoes and my fan , and tell them to sweep my great hall and my throne , for I want everyone to say I am really ` Pretty Goldilocks . ' ''
You can imagine how all her maids scurried this way and that to make the Princess ready , and how in their haste they knocked their heads together and hindered each other , till she thought they would never have done .
However , at last they led her into the gallery of mirrors that she might assure herself that nothing was lacking in her appearance , and then she mounted her throne of gold , ebony , and ivory , while her ladies took their guitars and began to sing softly .
Then Charming was led in , and was so struck with astonishment and admiration that at first not a word could he say .
But presently he took courage and delivered his harangue , bravely ending by begging the Princess to spare him the disappointment of going back without her .
`` Sir Charming , '' answered she , `` all the reasons you have given me are very good ones , and I assure you that I should have more pleasure in obliging you than anyone else , but you must know that a month ago as I was walking by the river with my ladies I took off my glove , and as I did so a ring that I was wearing slipped off my finger and rolled into the water .
As I valued it more than my kingdom , you may imagine how vexed I was at losing it , and I vowed to never listen to any proposal of marriage unless the ambassador first brought me back my ring .
So now you know what is expected of you , for if you talked for fifteen days and fifteen nights you could not make me change my mind . ''
Charming was very much surprised by this answer , but he bowed low to the Princess , and begged her to accept the embroidered scarf and the tiny dog he had brought with him .
But she answered that she did not want any presents , and that he was to remember what she had just told him .
When he got back to his lodging he went to bed without eating any supper , and his little dog , who was called Frisk , could n't eat any either , but came and lay down close to him .
All night Charming sighed and lamented .
`` How am I to find a ring that fell into the river a month ago ? ''
said he .
`` It is useless to try ; the Princess must have told me to do it on purpose , knowing it was impossible . ''
And then he sighed again .
Frisk heard him and said : `` My dear master , do n't despair ; the luck may change , you are too good not to be happy .
Let us go down to the river as soon as it is light . ''
But Charming only gave him two little pats and said nothing , and very soon he fell asleep .
At the first glimmer of dawn Frisk began to jump about , and when he had waked Charming they went out together , first into the garden , and then down to the river 's brink , where they wandered up and down .
Charming was thinking sadly of having to go back unsuccessful when he heard someone calling : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
He looked all about him and thought he must be dreaming , as he could not see anybody .
Then he walked on and the voice called again : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
`` Who calls me ? ''
said he .
Frisk , who was very small and could look closely into the water , cried out : `` I see a golden carp coming . ''
And sure enough there was the great carp , who said to Charming : `` You saved my life in the meadow by the willow tree , and I promised that I would repay you .
Take this , it is Princess Goldilock 's ring . ''
Charming took the ring out of Dame Carp 's mouth , thanking her a thousand times , and he and tiny Frisk went straight to the palace , where someone told the Princess that he was asking to see her .
`` Ah !
poor fellow , '' said she , `` he must have come to say good-by , finding it impossible to do as I asked . ''
So in came Charming , who presented her with the ring and said : `` Madam , I have done your bidding .
Will it please you to marry my master ? ''
When the Princess saw her ring brought back to her unhurt she was so astonished that she thought she must be dreaming .
`` Truly , Charming , '' said she , `` you must be the favorite of some fairy , or you could never have found it . ''
`` Madam , '' answered he , `` I was helped by nothing but my desire to obey your wishes . ''
`` Since you are so kind , '' said she , `` perhaps you will do me another service , for till it is done I will never be married .
There is a prince not far from here whose name is Galifron , who once wanted to marry me , but when I refused he uttered the most terrible threats against me , and vowed that he would lay waste my country .
But what could I do ?
I could not marry a frightful giant as tall as a tower , who eats up people as a monkey eats chestnuts , and who talks so loud that anybody who has to listen to him becomes quite deaf .
Nevertheless , he does not cease to persecute me and to kill my subjects .
So before I can listen to your proposal you must kill him and bring me his head . ''
Charming was rather dismayed at this command , but he answered : `` Very well , Princess , I will fight this Galifron ; I believe that he will kill me , but at any rate I shall die in your defense . ''
Then the Princess was frightened and said everything she could think of to prevent Charming from fighting the giant , but it was of no use , and he went out to arm himself suitably , and then , taking little Frisk with him , he mounted his horse and set out for Galifron 's country .
Everyone he met told him what a terrible giant Galifron was , and that nobody dared go near him ; and the more he heard , the more frightened he grew .
Frisk tried to encourage him by saying : `` While you are fighting the giant , dear master , I will go and bite his heels , and when he stoops down to look at me you can kill him . ''
Charming praised his little dog 's plan , but knew that this help would not do much good .
At last he drew near the giant 's castle , and saw to his horror that every path that led to it was strewn with bones .
Before long he saw Galifron coming .
His head was higher than the tallest trees , and he sang in a terrible voice : `` Bring out your little boys and girls , Pray do not stay to do their curls , For I shall eat so very many , I shall not know if they have any . ''
Thereupon Charming sang out as loud as he could to the same tune : `` Come out and meet the valiant Charming Who finds you not at all alarming ; Although he is not very tall , He 's big enough to make you fall . ''
The rhymes were not very correct , but you see he had made them up so quickly that it is a miracle that they were not worse ; especially as he was horribly frightened all the time .
When Galifron heard these words he looked all about him , and saw Charming standing , sword in hand this put the giant into a terrible rage , and he aimed a blow at Charming with his huge iron club , which would certainly have killed him if it had reached him , but at that instant a raven perched upon the giant 's head , and , pecking with its strong beak and beating with its great wings so confused and blinded him that all his blows fell harmlessly upon the air , and Charming , rushing in , gave him several strokes with his sharp sword so that he fell to the ground .
Whereupon Charming cut off his head before he knew anything about it , and the raven from a tree close by croaked out : `` You see I have not forgotten the good turn you did me in killing the eagle .
To-day I think I have fulfilled my promise of repaying you . ''
`` Indeed , I owe you more gratitude than you ever owed me , '' replied Charming .
And then he mounted his horse and rode off with Galifron 's head .
When he reached the city the people ran after him in crowds , crying : `` Behold the brave Charming , who has killed the giant ! ''
And their shouts reached the Princess 's ear , but she dared not ask what was happening , for fear she should hear that Charming had been killed .
But very soon he arrived at the palace with the giant 's head , of which she was still terrified , though it could no longer do her any harm .
`` Princess , '' said Charming , `` I have killed your enemy ; I hope you will now consent to marry the King my master . ''
`` Oh dear !
no , '' said the Princess , `` not until you have brought me some water from the Gloomy Cavern .
`` Not far from here there is a deep cave , the entrance to which is guarded by two dragons with fiery eyes , who will not allow anyone to pass them .
When you get into the cavern you will find an immense hole , which you must go down , and it is full of toads and snakes ; at the bottom of this hole there is another little cave , in which rises the Fountain of Health and Beauty .
It is some of this water that I really must have : everything it touches becomes wonderful .
The beautiful things will always remain beautiful , and the ugly things become lovely .
If one is young one never grows old , and if one is old one becomes young .
You see , Charming , I could not leave my kingdom without taking some of it with me . ''
`` Princess , '' said he , `` you at least can never need this water , but I am an unhappy ambassador , whose death you desire .
Where you send me I will go , though I know I shall never return . ''
And , as the Princess Goldilocks showed no sign of relenting , he started with his little dog for the Gloomy Cavern .
Everyone he met on the way said : `` What a pity that a handsome young man should throw away his life so carelessly !
He is going to the cavern alone , though if he had a hundred men with him he could not succeed .
Why does the Princess ask impossibilities ? ''
Charming said nothing , but he was very sad .
When he was near the top of a hill he dismounted to let his horse graze , while Frisk amused himself by chasing flies .
Charming knew he could not be far from the Gloomy Cavern , and on looking about him he saw a black hideous rock from which came a thick smoke , followed in a moment by one of the dragons with fire blazing from his mouth and eyes .
His body was yellow and green , and his claws scarlet , and his tail was so long that it lay in a hundred coils .
Frisk was so terrified at the sight of it that he did not know where to hide .
Charming , quite determined to get the water or die , now drew his sword , and , taking the crystal flask which Pretty Goldilocks had given him to fill , said to Frisk : `` I feel sure that I shall never come back from this expedition ; when I am dead , go to the Princess and tell her that her errand has cost me my life .
Then find the King my master , and relate all my adventures to him . ''
As he spoke he heard a voice calling : `` Charming , Charming ! ''
`` Who calls me ? ''
said he ; then he saw an owl sitting in a hollow tree , who said to him : `` You saved my life when I was caught in the net , now I can repay you .
Trust me with the flask , for I know all the ways of the Gloomy Cavern , and can fill it from the Fountain of Beauty . ''
Charming was only too glad to give her the flask , and she flitted into the cavern quite unnoticed by the dragon , and after some time returned with the flask , filled to the very brim with sparkling water .
Charming thanked her with all his heart , and joyfully hastened back to the town .
He went straight to the palace and gave the flask to the Princess , who had no further objection to make .
So she thanked Charming , and ordered that preparations should be made for her departure , and they soon set out together .
The Princess found Charming such an agreeable companion that she sometimes said to him : `` Why did n't we stay where we were ?
I could have made you king , and we should have been so happy ! ''
But Charming only answered : `` I could not have done anything that would have vexed my master so much , even for a kingdom , or to please you , though I think you are as beautiful as the sun . ''
At last they reached the King 's great city , and he came out to meet the Princess , bringing magnificent presents , and the marriage was celebrated with great rejoicings .
But Goldilocks was so fond of Charming that she could not be happy unless he was near her , and she was always singing his praises .
`` If it had n't been for Charming , '' she said to the King , `` I should never have come here ; you ought to be very much obliged to him , for he did the most impossible things and got me water from the Fountain of Beauty , so I can never grow old , and shall get prettier every year . ''
Then Charming 's enemies said to the King : `` It is a wonder that you are not jealous , the Queen thinks there is nobody in the world like Charming .
As if anybody you had sent could not have done just as much ! ''
`` It is quite true , now I come to think of it , '' said the King .
`` Let him be chained hand and foot , and thrown into the tower . ''
So they took Charming , and as a reward for having served the King so faithfully he was shut up in the tower , where he only saw the jailer , who brought him a piece of black bread and a pitcher of water every day .
However , little Frisk came to console him , and told him all the news .
When Pretty Goldilocks heard what had happened she threw herself at the King 's feet and begged him to set Charming free , but the more she cried , the more angry he was , and at last she saw that it was useless to say any more ; but it made her very sad .
Then the King took it into his head that perhaps he was not handsome enough to please the Princess Goldilocks , and he thought he would bathe his face with the water from the Fountain of Beauty , which was in the flask on a shelf in the Princess 's room , where she had placed it that she might see it often .
Now it happened that one of the Princess 's ladies in chasing a spider had knocked the flask off the shelf and broken it , and every drop of the water had been spilt .
Not knowing what to do , she had hastily swept away the pieces of crystal , and then remembered that in the King 's room she had seen a flask of exactly the same shape , also filled with sparkling water .
So , without saying a word , she fetched it and stood it upon the Queen 's shelf .
Now the water in this flask was what was used in the kingdom for getting rid of troublesome people .
Instead of having their heads cut off in the usual way , their faces were bathed with the water , and they instantly fell asleep and never woke up any more .
So , when the King , thinking to improve his beauty , took the flask and sprinkled the water upon his face , he fell asleep , and nobody could wake him .
Little Frisk was the first to hear the news , and he ran to tell Charming , who sent him to beg the Princess not to forget the poor prisoner .
All the palace was in confusion on account of the King 's death , but tiny Frisk made his way through the crowd to the Princess 's side , and said : `` Madam , do not forget poor Charming . ''
Then she remembered all he had done for her , and without saying a word to anyone went straight to the tower , and with her own hands took off Charming 's chains .
Then , putting a golden crown upon his head , and the royal mantle upon his shoulders , she said : `` Come , faithful Charming , I make you king , and will take you for my husband . ''
Charming , once more free and happy , fell at her feet and thanked her for her gracious words .
Everybody was delighted that he should be king , and the wedding , which took place at once , was the prettiest that can be imagined , and Prince Charming and Princess Goldilocks lived happily ever after .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
THE HISTORY OF WHITTINGTON Dick Whittington was a very little boy when his father and mother died ; so little , indeed , that he never knew them , nor the place where he was born .
He strolled about the country as ragged as a colt , till he met with a wagoner who was going to London , and who gave him leave to walk all the way by the side of his wagon without paying anything for his passage .
This pleased little Whittington very much , as he wanted to see London sadly , for he had heard that the streets were paved with gold , and he was willing to get a bushel of it ; but how great was his disappointment , poor boy !
when he saw the streets covered with dirt instead of gold , and found himself in a strange place , without a friend , without food , and without money .
Though the wagoner was so charitable as to let him walk up by the side of the wagon for nothing , he took care not to know him when he came to town , and the poor boy was , in a little time , so cold and hungry that he wished himself in a good kitchen and by a warm fire in the country .
In his distress he asked charity of several people , and one of them bid him `` Go to work for an idle rogue . ''
`` That I will , '' said Whittington , `` with all my heart ; I will work for you if you will let me . ''
The man , who thought this savored of wit and impertinence -LRB- though the poor lad intended only to show his readiness to work -RRB- , gave him a blow with a stick which broke his head so that the blood ran down .
In this situation , and fainting for want of food , he laid himself down at the door of one Mr. Fitzwarren , a merchant , where the cook saw him , and , being an ill-natured hussy , ordered him to go about his business or she would scald him .
At this time Mr. Fitzwarren came from the Exchange , and began also to scold at the poor boy , bidding him to go to work .
Whittington answered that he should be glad to work if anybody would employ him , and that he should be able if he could get some victuals to eat , for he had had nothing for three days , and he was a poor country boy , and knew nobody , and nobody would employ him .
He then endeavored to get up , but he was so very weak that he fell down again , which excited so much compassion in the merchant that he ordered the servants to take him in and give him some meat and drink , and let him help the cook to do any dirty work that she had to set him about .
People are too apt to reproach those who beg with being idle , but give themselves no concern to put them in the way of getting business to do , or considering whether they are able to do it , which is not charity .
But we return to Whittington , who could have lived happy in this worthy family had he not been bumped about by the cross cook , who must be always roasting and basting , or when the spit was idle employed her hands upon poor Whittington !
At last Miss Alice , his master 's daughter , was informed of it , and then she took compassion on the poor boy , and made the servants treat him kindly .
Besides the crossness of the cook , Whittington had another difficulty to get over before he could be happy .
He had , by order of his master , a flock-bed placed for him in a garret , where there was a number of rats and mice that often ran over the poor boy 's nose and disturbed him in his sleep .
After some time , however , a gentleman who came to his master 's house gave Whittington a penny for brushing his shoes .
This he put into his pocket , being determined to lay it out to the best advantage ; and the next day , seeing a woman in the street with a cat under her arm , he ran up to know the price of it .
The woman -LRB- as the cat was a good mouser -RRB- asked a deal of money for it , but on Whittington 's telling her he had but a penny in the world , and that he wanted a cat sadly , she let him have it .
This cat Whittington concealed in the garret , for fear she should be beat about by his mortal enemy the cook , and here she soon killed or frightened away the rats and mice , so that the poor boy could now sleep as sound as a top .
Soon after this the merchant , who had a ship ready to sail , called for his servants , as his custom was , in order that each of them might venture something to try their luck ; and whatever they sent was to pay neither freight nor custom , for he thought justly that God Almighty would bless him the more for his readiness to let the poor partake of his fortune .
All the servants appeared but poor Whittington , who , having neither money nor goods , could not think of sending anything to try his luck ; but his good friend Miss Alice , thinking his poverty kept him away , ordered him to be called .
She then offered to lay down something for him , but the merchant told his daughter that would not do , it must be something of his own .
Upon which poor Whittington said he had nothing but a cat which he bought for a penny that was given him .
`` Fetch thy cat , boy , '' said the merchant , `` and send her . ''
Whittington brought poor puss and delivered her to the captain , with tears in his eyes , for he said he should now be disturbed by the rats and mice as much as ever .
All the company laughed at the adventure but Miss Alice , who pitied the poor boy , and gave him something to buy another cat .
While puss was beating the billows at sea , poor Whittington was severely beaten at home by his tyrannical mistress the cook , who used him so cruelly , and made such game of him for sending his cat to sea , that at last the poor boy determined to run away from his place , and having packed up the few things he had , he set out very early in the morning on All-Hallows day .
He traveled as far as Holloway , and there sat down on a stone to consider what course he should take ; but while he was thus ruminating , Bow bells , of which there were only six , began to ring ; and he thought their sounds addressed him in this manner : `` Turn again , Whittington , Thrice Lord Mayor of London . ''
`` Lord Mayor of London ! ''
said he to himself , `` what would not one endure to be Lord Mayor of London , and ride in such a fine coach ?
Well , I 'll go back again , and bear all the pummelling and ill-usage of Cicely rather than miss the opportunity of being Lord Mayor ! ''
So home he went , and happily got into the house and about his business before Mrs. Cicely made her appearance .
We must now follow Miss Puss to the coast of Africa .
How perilous are voyages at sea , how uncertain the winds and the waves , and how many accidents attend a naval life !
The ship that had the cat on board was long beaten at sea , and at last , by contrary winds , driven on a part of the coast of Barbary which was inhabited by Moors unknown to the English .
These people received our countrymen with civility , and therefore the captain , in order to trade with them , showed them the patterns of the goods he had on board , and sent some of them to the King of the country , who was so well pleased that he sent for the captain and the factor to come to his palace , which was about a mile from the sea .
Here they were placed , according to the custom of the country , on rich carpets , flowered with gold and silver ; and the King and Queen being seated at the upper end of the room , dinner was brought in , which consisted of many dishes ; but no sooner were the dishes put down but an amazing number of rats and mice came from all quarters and devoured all the meat in an instant .
The factor , in surprise , turned round to the nobles and asked if these vermin were not offensive .
`` Oh !
yes , '' said they , `` very offensive ; and the King would give half his treasure to be freed of them , for they not only destroy his dinner , as you see , but they assault him in his chamber , and even in bed , so that he is obliged to be watched while he is sleeping , for fear of them . ''
The factor jumped for joy ; he remembered poor Whittington and his cat , and told the King he had a creature on board the ship that would despatch all these vermin immediately .
The King 's heart heaved so high at the joy which this news gave him that his turban dropped off his head .
`` Bring this creature to me , '' said he ; `` vermin are dreadful in a court , and if she will perform what you say I will load your ship with gold and jewels in exchange for her . ''
The factor , who knew his business , took this opportunity to set forth the merits of Miss Puss .
He told his Majesty that it would be inconvenient to part with her , as , when she was gone , the rats and mice might destroy the goods in the ship -- but to oblige his Majesty he would fetch her .
`` Run , run , '' said the Queen ; `` I am impatient to see the dear creature . ''
Away flew the factor , while another dinner was providing , and returned with the cat just as the rats and mice were devouring that also .
He immediately put down Miss Puss , who killed a great number of them .
The King rejoiced greatly to see his old enemies destroyed by so small a creature , and the Queen was highly pleased , and desired the cat might be brought near that she might look at her .
Upon which the factor called `` Pussy , pussy , pussy ! ''
and she came to him .
He then presented her to the Queen , who started back , and was afraid to touch a creature who had made such havoc among the rats and mice ; however , when the factor stroked the cat and called `` Pussy , pussy ! ''
the Queen also touched her and cried `` Putty , putty ! ''
for she had not learned English .
He then put her down on the Queen 's lap , where she , purring , played with her Majesty 's hand , and then sang herself to sleep .
The King , having seen the exploits of Miss Puss , and being informed that her kittens would stock the whole country , bargained with the captain and factor for the whole ship 's cargo , and then gave them ten times as much for the cat as all the rest amounted to .
On which , taking leave of their Majesties and other great personages at court , they sailed with a fair wind for England , whither we must now attend them .
The morn had scarcely dawned when Mr. Fitzwarren arose to count over the cash and settle the business for that day .
He had just entered the counting-house , and seated himself at the desk , when somebody came , tap , tap , at the door .
`` Who 's there ? ''
said Mr. Fitzwarren .
`` A friend , '' answered the other .
`` What friend can come at this unseasonable time ? ''
`` A real friend is never unseasonable , '' answered the other .
`` I come to bring you good news of your ship Unicorn . ''
The merchant bustled up in such a hurry that he forgot his gout ; instantly opened the door , and who should be seen waiting but the captain and factor , with a cabinet of jewels , and a bill of lading , for which the merchant lifted up his eyes and thanked heaven for sending him such a prosperous voyage .
Then they told him the adventures of the cat , and showed him the cabinet of jewels which they had brought for Mr. Whittington .
Upon which he cried out with great earnestness , but not in the most poetical manner : `` Go , send him in , and tell him of his fame , And call him Mr. Whittington by name . ''
It is not our business to animadvert upon these lines ; we are not critics , but historians .
It is sufficient for us that they are the words of Mr. Fitzwarren ; and though it is beside our purpose , and perhaps not in our power to prove him a good poet , we shall soon convince the reader that he was a good man , which was a much better character ; for when some who were present told him that this treasure was too much for such a poor boy as Whittington , he said : `` God forbid that I should deprive him of a penny ; it is his own , and he shall have it to a farthing . ''
He then ordered Mr. Whittington in , who was at this time cleaning the kitchen and would have excused himself from going into the counting-house , saying the room was swept and his shoes were dirty and full of hob-nails .
The merchant , however , made him come in , and ordered a chair to be set for him .
Upon which , thinking they intended to make sport of him , as had been too often the case in the kitchen , he besought his master not to mock a poor simple fellow , who intended them no harm , but let him go about his business .
The merchant , taking him by the hand , said : `` Indeed , Mr. Whittington , I am in earnest with you , and sent for you to congratulate you on your great success .
Your cat has procured you more money than I am worth in the world , and may you long enjoy it and be happy ! ''
At length , being shown the treasure , and convinced by them that all of it belonged to him , he fell upon his knees and thanked the Almighty for his providential care of such a poor and miserable creature .
He then laid all the treasure at his master 's feet , who refused to take any part of it , but told him he heartily rejoiced at his prosperity , and hoped the wealth he had acquired would be a comfort to him , and would make him happy .
He then applied to his mistress , and to his good friend Miss Alice , who refused to take any part of the money , but told him she heartily rejoiced at his good success , and wished him all imaginable felicity .
He then gratified the captain , factor , and the ship 's crew for the care they had taken of his cargo .
He likewise distributed presents to all the servants in the house , not forgetting even his old enemy the cook , though she little deserved it .
After this Mr. Fitzwarren advised Mr. Whittington to send for the necessary people and dress himself like a gentleman , and made him the offer of his house to live in till he could provide himself with a better .
Now it came to pass when Mr. Whittington 's face was washed , his hair curled , and he dressed in a rich suit of clothes , that he turned out a genteel young fellow ; and , as wealth contributes much to give a man confidence , he in a little time dropped that sheepish behavior which was principally occasioned by a depression of spirits , and soon grew a sprightly and good companion , insomuch that Miss Alice , who had formerly pitied him , now fell in love with him .
When her father perceived they had this good liking for each other he proposed a match between them , to which both parties cheerfully consented , and the Lord Mayor , Court of Aldermen , Sheriffs , the Company of Stationers , the Royal Academy of Arts , and a number of eminent merchants attended the ceremony , and were elegantly treated at an entertainment made for that purpose .
History further relates that they lived very happy , had several children , and died at a good old age .
Mr. Whittington served as Sheriff of London and was three times Lord Mayor .
In the last year of his mayoralty he entertained King Henry V and his Queen , after his conquest of France , upon which occasion the King , in consideration of Whittington 's merit , said : `` Never had prince such a subject '' ; which being told to Whittington at the table , he replied : `` Never had subject such a king . ''
His Majesty , out of respect to his good character , conferred the honor of knighthood on him soon after .
Sir Richard many years before his death constantly fed a great number of poor citizens , built a church and a college to it , with a yearly allowance for poor scholars , and near it erected a hospital .
He also built Newgate for criminals , and gave liberally to St. Bartholomew 's Hospital and other public charities .
THE WONDERFUL SHEEP Once upon a time -- in the days when the fairies lived -- there was a king who had three daughters , who were all young , and clever , and beautiful ; but the youngest of the three , who was called Miranda , was the prettiest and the most beloved .
The King , her father , gave her more dresses and jewels in a month than he gave the others in a year ; but she was so generous that she shared everything with her sisters , and they were all as happy and as fond of one another as they could be .
Now , the King had some quarrelsome neighbors , who , tired of leaving him in peace , began to make war upon him so fiercely that he feared he would be altogether beaten if he did not make an effort to defend himself .
So he collected a great army and set off to fight them , leaving the Princesses with their governess in a castle where news of the war was brought every day -- sometimes that the King had taken a town , or won a battle , and , at last , that he had altogether overcome his enemies and chased them out of his kingdom , and was coming back to the castle as quickly as possible , to see his dear little Miranda whom he loved so much .
The three Princesses put on dresses of satin , which they had had made on purpose for this great occasion , one green , one blue , and the third white ; their jewels were the same colors .
The eldest wore emeralds , the second turquoises , and the youngest diamonds , and thus adorned they went to meet the King , singing verses which they had composed about his victories .
When he saw them all so beautiful and so gay he embraced them tenderly , but gave Miranda more kisses than either of the others .
Presently a splendid banquet was served , and the King and his daughters sat down to it , and as he always thought that there was some special meaning in everything , he said to the eldest : `` Tell me why you have chosen a green dress . ''
`` Sire , '' she answered , `` having heard of your victories I thought that green would signify my joy and the hope of your speedy return . ''
`` That is a very good answer , '' said the King ; `` and you , my daughter , '' he continued , `` why did you take a blue dress ? ''
`` Sire , '' said the Princess , `` to show that we constantly hoped for your success , and that the sight of you is as welcome to me as the sky with its most beautiful stars . ''
`` Why , '' said the King , `` your wise answers astonish me , and you , Miranda .
What made you dress yourself all in white ?
`` Because , sire , '' she answered , `` white suits me better than anything else . ''
`` What ! ''
said the King angrily , `` was that all you thought of , vain child ? ''
`` I thought you would be pleased with me , '' said the Princess ; `` that was all . ''
The King , who loved her , was satisfied with this , and even pretended to be pleased that she had not told him all her reasons at first .
`` And now , '' said he , `` as I have supped well , and it is not time yet to go to bed , tell me what you dreamed last night . ''
The eldest said she had dreamed that he brought her a dress , and the precious stones and gold embroidery on it were brighter than the sun .
The dream of the second was that the King had brought her a spinning wheel and a distaff , that she might spin him some shirts .
But the youngest said : `` I dreamed that my second sister was to be married , and on her wedding-day , you , father , held a golden ewer and said : ` Come , Miranda , and I will hold the water that you may dip your hands in it . ' ''
The King was very angry indeed when he heard this dream , and frowned horribly ; indeed , he made such an ugly face that everyone knew how angry he was , and he got up and went off to bed in a great hurry ; but he could not forget his daughter 's dream .
`` Does the proud girl wish to make me her slave ? ''
he said to himself .
`` I am not surprised at her choosing to dress herself in white satin without a thought of me .
She does not think me worthy of her consideration !
But I will soon put an end to her pretensions ! ''
He rose in a fury , and although it was not yet daylight , he sent for the Captain of his Bodyguard , and said to him : `` You have heard the Princess Miranda 's dream ?
I consider that it means strange things against me , therefore I order you to take her away into the forest and kill her , and , that I may be sure it is done , you must bring me her heart and her tongue .
If you attempt to deceive me you shall be put to death ! ''
The Captain of the Guard was very much astonished when he heard this barbarous order , but he did not dare to contradict the King for fear of making him still more angry , or causing him to send someone else , so he answered that he would fetch the Princess and do as the King had said .
When he went to her room they would hardly let him in , it was so early , but he said that the King had sent for Miranda , and she got up quickly and came out ; a little black girl called Patypata held up her train , and her pet monkey and her little dog ran after her .
The monkey was called Grabugeon , and the little dog Tintin .
The Captain of the Guard begged Miranda to come down into the garden where the King was enjoying the fresh air , and when they got there , he pretended to search for him , but as he was not to be found , he said : `` No doubt his Majesty has strolled into the forest , '' and he opened the little door that led to it and they went through .
By this time the daylight had begun to appear , and the Princess , looking at her conductor , saw that he had tears in his eyes and seemed too sad to speak .
`` What is the matter ? ''
she said in the kindest way .
`` You seem very sorrowful . ''
`` Alas !
Princess , '' he answered , `` who would not be sorrowful who was ordered to do such a terrible thing as I am ?
The King has commanded me to kill you here , and carry your heart and your tongue to him , and if I disobey I shall lose my life . ''
The poor Princess was terrified , she grew very pale and began to cry softly .
Looking up at the Captain of the Guard with her beautiful eyes , she said gently : `` Will you really have the heart to kill me ?
I have never done you any harm , and have always spoken well of you to the King .
If I had deserved my father 's anger I would suffer without a murmur , but , alas !
he is unjust to complain of me , when I have always treated him with love and respect . ''
`` Fear nothing , Princess , '' said the Captain of the Guard .
`` I would far rather die myself than hurt you ; but even if I am killed you will not be safe : we must find some way of making the King believe that you are dead . ''
`` What can we do ? ''
said Miranda ; `` unless you take him my heart and my tongue he will never believe you . ''
The Princess and the Captain of the Guard were talking so earnestly that they did not think of Patypata , but she had overheard all they said , and now came and threw herself at Miranda 's feet .
`` Madam , '' she said , `` I offer you my life ; let me be killed , I shall be only too happy to die for such a kind mistress . ''
`` Why , Patypata , '' cried the Princess , kissing her , `` that would never do ; your life is as precious to me as my own , especially after such a proof of your affection as you have just given me . ''
`` You are right , Princess , '' said Grabugeon , coming forward , `` to love such a faithful slave as Patypata ; she is of more use to you than I am , I offer you my tongue and my heart most willingly , especially as I wish to make a great name for myself in Goblin Land . ''
`` No , no , my little Grabugeon , '' replied Miranda , `` I can not bear the thought of taking your life . ''
`` Such a good little dog as I am , '' cried Tintin , `` could not think of letting either of you die for his mistress .
If anyone is to die for her it must be me . ''
And then began a great dispute between Patypata , Grabugeon , and Tintin , and they came to high words , until at last Grabugeon , who was quicker than the others , ran up to the very top of the nearest tree , and let herself fall , head first , to the ground , and there she lay -- quite dead !
The Princess was very sorry , but as Grabugeon was really dead , she allowed the Captain of the Guard to take her tongue ; but , alas !
it was such a little one -- not bigger than the Princess 's thumb -- that they decided sorrowfully that it was of no use at all : the King would not have been taken in by it for a moment !
`` Alas !
my little monkey , '' cried the Princess , `` I have lost you , and yet I am no better off than I was before . ''
`` The honor of saving your life is to be mine , '' interrupted Patypata , and , before they could prevent her , she had picked up a knife and cut her head off in an instant .
But when the Captain of the Guard would have taken her tongue it turned out to be quite black , so that would not have deceived the King either .
`` Am I not unlucky ? ''
cried the poor Princess ; `` I lose everything I love , and am none the better for it . ''
`` If you had accepted my offer , '' said Tintin , `` you would only have had me to regret , and I should have had all your gratitude . ''
Miranda kissed her little dog , crying so bitterly , that at last she could bear it no longer , and turned away into the forest .
When she looked back the Captain of the Guard was gone , and she was alone , except for Patypata , Grabugeon , and Tintin , who lay upon the ground .
She could not leave the place until she had buried them in a pretty little mossy grave at the foot of a tree , and she wrote their names upon the bark of the tree , and how they had all died to save her life .
And then she began to think where she could go for safety -- for this forest was so close to her father 's castle that she might be seen and recognized by the first passer-by , and , besides that , it was full of lions and wolves , who would have snapped up a princess just as soon as a stray chicken .
So she began to walk as fast as she could , but the forest was so large and the sun was so hot that she nearly died of heat and terror and fatigue ; look which way she would there seemed to be no end to the forest , and she was so frightened that she fancied every minute that she heard the King running after her to kill her .
You may imagine how miserable she was , and how she cried as she went on , not knowing which path to follow , and with the thorny bushes scratching her dreadfully and tearing her pretty frock to pieces .
At last she heard the bleating of a sheep , and said to herself : `` No doubt there are shepherds here with their flocks ; they will show me the way to some village where I can live disguised as a peasant girl .
Alas !
it is not always kings and princes who are the happiest people in the world .
Who could have believed that I should ever be obliged to run away and hide because the King , for no reason at all , wishes to kill me ? ''
So saying she advanced toward the place where she heard the bleating , but what was her surprise when , in a lovely little glade quite surrounded by trees , she saw a large sheep ; its wool was as white as snow , and its horns shone like gold ; it had a garland of flowers round its neck , and strings of great pearls about its legs , and a collar of diamonds ; it lay upon a bank of orange-flowers , under a canopy of cloth of gold which protected it from the heat of the sun .
Nearly a hundred other sheep were scattered about , not eating the grass , but some drinking coffee , lemonade , or sherbet , others eating ices , strawberries and cream , or sweetmeats , while others , again , were playing games .
Many of them wore golden collars with jewels , flowers , and ribbons .
Miranda stopped short in amazement at this unexpected sight , and was looking in all directions for the shepherd of this surprising flock , when the beautiful sheep came bounding toward her .
`` Approach , lovely Princess , '' he cried ; `` have no fear of such gentle and peaceable animals as we are . ''
`` What a marvel ! ''
cried the Princess , starting back a little .
`` Here is a sheep that can talk . ''
`` Your monkey and your dog could talk , madam , '' said he ; `` are you more astonished at us than at them ? ''
`` A fairy gave them the power to speak , '' replied Miranda .
`` So I was used to them . ''
`` Perhaps the same thing has happened to us , '' he said , smiling sheepishly .
`` But , Princess , what can have led you here ? ''
`` A thousand misfortunes , Sir Sheep , '' she answered .
`` I am the unhappiest princess in the world , and I am seeking a shelter against my father 's anger . ''
`` Come with me , madam , '' said the Sheep ; `` I offer you a hiding-place which you only will know of , and where you will be mistress of everything you see . ''
`` I really can not follow you , '' said Miranda , `` for I am too tired to walk another step . ''
The Sheep with the golden horns ordered that his chariot should be fetched , and a moment after appeared six goats , harnessed to a pumpkin , which was so big that two people could quite well sit in it , and was all lined with cushions of velvet and down .
The Princess stepped into it , much amused at such a new kind of carriage , the King of the Sheep took his place beside her , and the goats ran away with them at full speed , and only stopped when they reached a cavern , the entrance to which was blocked by a great stone .
This the King touched with his foot , and immediately it fell down , and he invited the Princess to enter without fear .
Now , if she had not been so alarmed by everything that had happened , nothing could have induced her to go into this frightful cave , but she was so afraid of what might be behind her that she would have thrown herself even down a well at this moment .
So , without hesitation , she followed the Sheep , who went before her , down , down , down , until she thought they must come out at the other side of the world -- indeed , she was not sure that he was n't leading her into Fairyland .
At last she saw before her a great plain , quite covered with all sorts of flowers , the scent of which seemed to her nicer than anything she had ever smelled before ; a broad river of orange-flower water flowed round it and fountains of wine of every kind ran in all directions and made the prettiest little cascades and brooks .
The plain was covered with the strangest trees , there were whole avenues where partridges , ready roasted , hung from every branch , or , if you preferred pheasants , quails , turkeys , or rabbits , you had only to turn to the right hand or to the left and you were sure to find them .
In places the air was darkened by showers of lobster-patties , white puddings , sausages , tarts , and all sorts of sweetmeats , or with pieces of gold and silver , diamonds and pearls .
This unusual kind of rain , and the pleasantness of the whole place , would , no doubt , have attracted numbers of people to it , if the King of the Sheep had been of a more sociable disposition , but from all accounts it is evident that he was as grave as a judge .
As it was quite the nicest time of the year when Miranda arrived in this delightful land the only palace she saw was a long row of orange trees , jasmines , honeysuckles , and musk-roses , and their interlacing branches made the prettiest rooms possible , which were hung with gold and silver gauze , and had great mirrors and candlesticks , and most beautiful pictures .
The Wonderful Sheep begged that the Princess would consider herself queen over all that she saw , and assured her that , though for some years he had been very sad and in great trouble , she had it in her power to make him forget all his grief .
`` You are so kind and generous , noble Sheep , '' said the Princess , `` that I can not thank you enough , but I must confess that all I see here seems to me so extraordinary that I do n't know what to think of it . ''
As she spoke a band of lovely fairies came up and offered her amber baskets full of fruit , but when she held out her hands to them they glided away , and she could feel nothing when she tried to touch them .
`` Oh ! ''
she cried , `` what can they be ?
Whom am I with ? ''
and she began to cry .
At this instant the King of the Sheep came back to her , and was so distracted to find her in tears that he could have torn his wool .
`` What is the matter , lovely Princess ? ''
he cried .
`` Has anyone failed to treat you with due respect ? ''
`` Oh !
no , '' said Miranda ; `` only I am not used to living with sprites and with sheep that talk , and everything here frightens me .
It was very kind of you to bring me to this place , but I shall be even more grateful to you if you will take me up into the world again . ''
`` Do not be afraid , '' said the Wonderful Sheep ; `` I entreat you to have patience , and listen to the story of my misfortunes .
I was once a king , and my kingdom was the most splendid in the world .
My subjects loved me , my neighbors envied and feared me .
I was respected by everyone , and it was said that no king ever deserved it more .
`` I was very fond of hunting , and one day , while chasing a stag , I left my attendants far behind ; suddenly I saw the animal leap into a pool of water , and I rashly urged my horse to follow it , but before we had gone many steps I felt an extraordinary heat , instead of the coolness of the water ; the pond dried up , a great gulf opened before me , out of which flames of fire shot up , and I fell helplessly to the bottom of a precipice .
`` I gave myself up for lost , but presently a voice said : ` Ungrateful Prince , even this fire is hardly enough to warm your cold heart ! ' ''
` Who complains of my coldness in this dismal place ? '
I cried . ''
` An unhappy being who loves you hopelessly , ' replied the voice , and at the same moment the flames began to flicker and cease to burn , and I saw a fairy , whom I had known as long as I could remember , and whose ugliness had always horrified me .
She was leaning upon the arm of a most beautiful young girl , who wore chains of gold on her wrists and was evidently her slave . ''
` Why , Ragotte , ' I said , for that was the fairy 's name , ` what is the meaning of all this ?
Is it by your orders that I am here ? ' ''
` And whose fault is it , ' she answered , ` that you have never understood me until now ?
Must a powerful fairy like myself condescend to explain her doings to you who are no better than an ant by comparison , though you think yourself a great king ? ' ''
` Call me what you like , ' I said impatiently ; ` but what is it that you want -- my crown , or my cities , or my treasures ? ' ''
` Treasures ! '
said the fairy , disdainfully .
` If I chose I could make any one of my scullions richer and more powerful than you .
I do not want your treasures , but , ' she added softly , ` if you will give me your heart -- if you will marry me -- I will add twenty kingdoms to the one you have already ; you shall have a hundred castles full of gold and five hundred full of silver , and , in short , anything you like to ask me for . ' ''
` Madam Ragotte , ' said I , ` when one is at the bottom of a pit where one has fully expected to be roasted alive , it is impossible to think of asking such a charming person as you are to marry one !
I beg that you will set me at liberty , and then I shall hope to answer you fittingly . ' ''
` Ah ! '
said she , ` if you really loved me you would not care where you were -- a cave , a wood , a fox-hole , a desert , would please you equally well .
Do not think that you can deceive me ; you fancy you are going to escape , but I assure you that you are going to stay here and the first thing I shall give you to do will be to keep my sheep -- they are very good company and speak quite as well as you do .
`` As she spoke she advanced , and led me to this plain where we now stand , and showed me her flock , but I paid little attention to it or to her .
`` To tell the truth , I was so lost in admiration of her beautiful slave that I forgot everything else , and the cruel Ragotte , perceiving this , turned upon her so furious and terrible a look that she fell lifeless to the ground .
`` At this dreadful sight I drew my sword and rushed at Ragotte , and should certainly have cut off her head had she not by her magic arts chained me to the spot on which I stood ; all my efforts to move were useless , and at last , when I threw myself down on the ground in despair , she said to me , with a scornful smile : '' ' I intend to make you feel my power .
It seems that you are a lion at present , I mean you to be a sheep . '
`` So saying , she touched me with her wand , and I became what you see .
I did not lose the power of speech , or of feeling the misery of my present state . ''
` For five years , ' she said , ` you shall be a sheep , and lord of this pleasant land , while I , no longer able to see your face , which I loved so much , shall be better able to hate you as you deserve to be hated . '
`` She disappeared as she finished speaking , and if I had not been too unhappy to care about anything I should have been glad that she was gone .
`` The talking sheep received me as their king , and told me that they , too , were unfortunate princes who had , in different ways , offended the revengeful fairy , and had been added to her flock for a certain number of years ; some more , some less .
From time to time , indeed , one regains his own proper form and goes back again to his place in the upper world ; but the other beings whom you saw are the rivals or the enemies of Ragotte , whom she has imprisoned for a hundred years or so ; though even they will go back at last .
The young slave of whom I told you about is one of these ; I have seen her often , and it has been a great pleasure to me .
She never speaks to me , and if I were nearer to her I know I should find her only a shadow , which would be very annoying .
However , I noticed that one of my companions in misfortune was also very attentive to this little sprite , and I found out that he had been her lover , whom the cruel Ragotte had taken away from her long before ; since then I have cared for , and thought of , nothing but how I might regain my freedom .
I have often been in the forest ; that is where I have seen you , lovely Princess , sometimes driving your chariot , which you did with all the grace and skill in the world ; sometimes riding to the chase on so spirited a horse that it seemed as if no one but yourself could have managed it , and sometimes running races on the plain with the Princesses of your Court -- running so lightly that it was you always who won the prize .
Oh !
Princess , I have loved you so long , and yet how dare I tell you of my love !
what hope can there be for an unhappy sheep like myself ? ''
Miranda was so surprised and confused by all that she had heard that she hardly knew what answer to give to the King of the Sheep , but she managed to make some kind of little speech , which certainly did not forbid him to hope , and said that she should not be afraid of the shadows now she knew that they would some day come to life again .
`` Alas ! ''
she continued , `` if my poor Patypata , my dear Grabugeon , and pretty little Tintin , who all died for my sake , were equally well off , I should have nothing left to wish for here ! ''
Prisoner though he was , the King of the Sheep had still some powers and privileges .
`` Go , '' said he to his Master of the Horse , `` go and seek the shadows of the little black girl , the monkey , and the dog : they will amuse our Princess . ''
And an instant afterward Miranda saw them coming toward her , and their presence gave her the greatest pleasure , though they did not come near enough for her to touch them .
The King of the Sheep was so kind and amusing , and loved Miranda so dearly , that at last she began to love him too .
Such a handsome sheep , who was so polite and considerate , could hardly fail to please , especially if one knew that he was really a king , and that his strange imprisonment would soon come to an end .
So the Princess 's days passed very gaily while she waited for the happy time to come .
The King of the Sheep , with the help of all the flock , got up balls , concerts , and hunting parties , and even the shadows joined in all the fun , and came , making believe to be their own real selves .
One evening , when the couriers arrived -LRB- for the King sent most carefully for news -- and they always brought the very best kinds -RRB- , it was announced that the sister of the Princess Miranda was going to be married to a great Prince , and that nothing could be more splendid than all the preparations for the wedding .
`` Ah ! ''
cried the young Princess , `` how unlucky I am to miss the sight of so many pretty things !
Here am I imprisoned under the earth , with no company but sheep and shadows , while my sister is to be adorned like a queen and surrounded by all who love and admire her , and everyone but myself can go to wish her joy ! ''
`` Why do you complain , Princess ? ''
said the King of the Sheep .
`` Did I say that you were not to go to the wedding ?
Set out as soon as you please ; only promise me that you will come back , for I love you too much to be able to live without you . ''
Miranda was very grateful to him , and promised faithfully that nothing in the world should keep her from coming back .
The King caused an escort suitable to her rank to be got ready for her , and she dressed herself splendidly , not forgetting anything that could make her more beautiful .
Her chariot was of mother-of-pearl , drawn by six dun-colored griffins just brought from the other side of the world , and she was attended by a number of guards in splendid uniforms , who were all at least eight feet high and had come from far and near to ride in the Princess 's train .
Miranda reached her father 's palace just as the wedding ceremony began , and everyone , as soon as she came in , was struck with surprise at her beauty and the splendor of her jewels .
She heard exclamations of admiration on all sides ; and the King her father looked at her so attentively that she was afraid he must recognize her ; but he was so sure that she was dead that the idea never occurred to him .
However , the fear of not getting away made her leave before the marriage was over .
She went out hastily , leaving behind her a little coral casket set with emeralds .
On it was written in diamond letters : `` Jewels for the Bride , '' and when they opened it , which they did as soon as it was found , there seemed to be no end to the pretty things it contained .
The King , who had hoped to join the unknown Princess and find out who she was , was dreadfully disappointed when she disappeared so suddenly , and gave orders that if she ever came again the doors were to be shut that she might not get away so easily .
Short as Miranda 's absence had been , it had seemed like a hundred years to the King of the Sheep .
He was waiting for her by a fountain in the thickest part of the forest , and the ground was strewn with splendid presents which he had prepared for her to show his joy and gratitude at her coming back .
As soon as she was in sight he rushed to meet her , leaping and bounding like a real sheep .
He caressed her tenderly , throwing himself at her feet and kissing her hands , and told her how uneasy he had been in her absence , and how impatient for her return , with an eloquence which charmed her .
After some time came the news that the King 's second daughter was going to be married .
When Miranda heard it she begged the King of the Sheep to allow her to go and see the wedding as before .
This request made him feel very sad , as if some misfortune must surely come of it , but his love for the Princess being stronger than anything else he did not like to refuse her .
`` You wish to leave me , Princess , '' said he ; `` it is my unhappy fate -- you are not to blame .
I consent to your going , but , believe me , I can give you no stronger proof of my love than by so doing . ''
The Princess assured him that she would only stay a very short time , as she had done before , and begged him not to be uneasy , as she would be quite as much grieved if anything detained her as he could possibly be .
So , with the same escort , she set out , and reached the palace as the marriage ceremony began .
Everybody was delighted to see her ; she was so pretty that they thought she must be some fairy princess , and the Princes who were there could not take their eyes off her .
The King was more glad than anyone else that she had come again , and gave orders that the doors should all be shut and bolted that very minute .
When the wedding was all but over the Princess got up quickly , hoping to slip away unnoticed among the crowd , but , to her great dismay , she found every door fastened .
She felt more at ease when the King came up to her , and with the greatest respect begged her not to run away so soon , but at least to honor him by staying for the splendid feast which was prepared for the Princes and Princesses .
He led her into a magnificent hall , where all the Court was assembled , and himself taking up the golden bowl full of water , he offered it to her that she might dip her pretty fingers into it .
At this the Princess could no longer contain herself ; throwing herself at the King 's feet , she cried out : `` My dream has come true after all -- you have offered me water to wash my hands on my sister 's wedding day , and it has not vexed you to do it . ''
The King recognized her at once -- indeed , he had already thought several times how much like his poor little Miranda she was .
`` Oh !
my dear daughter , '' he cried , kissing her , `` can you ever forget my cruelty ?
I ordered you to be put to death because I thought your dream portended the loss of my crown .
And so it did , '' he added , `` for now your sisters are both married and have kingdoms of their own -- and mine shall be for you . ''
So saying he put his crown on the Princess 's head and cried : `` Long live Queen Miranda ! ''
All the Court cried : `` Long live Queen Miranda ! ''
after him , and the young Queen 's two sisters came running up , and threw their arms round her neck , and kissed her a thousand times , and then there was such a laughing and crying , talking and kissing , all at once , and Miranda thanked her father , and began to ask after everyone -- particularly the Captain of the Guard , to whom she owed so much ; but , to her great sorrow , she heard that he was dead .
Presently they sat down to the banquet , and the King asked Miranda to tell them all that had happened to her since the terrible morning when he had sent the Captain of the Guard to fetch her .
This she did with so much spirit that all the guests listened with breathless interest .
But while she was thus enjoying herself with the King and her sisters , the King of the Sheep was waiting impatiently for the time of her return , and when it came and went , and no Princess appeared , his anxiety became so great that he could bear it no longer .
`` She is not coming back any more , '' he cried .
`` My miserable sheep 's face displeases her , and without Miranda what is left to me , wretched creature that I am !
Oh !
cruel Ragotte ; my punishment is complete . ''
For a long time he bewailed his sad fate like this , and then , seeing that it was growing dark , and that still there was no sign of the Princess , he set out as fast as he could in the direction of the town .
When he reached the palace he asked for Miranda , but by this time everyone had heard the story of her adventures , and did not want her to go back again to the King of the Sheep , so they refused sternly to let him see her .
In vain he begged and prayed them to let him in ; though his entreaties might have melted hearts of stone they did not move the guards of the palace , and at last , quite broken-hearted , he fell dead at their feet .
In the meantime the King , who had not the least idea of the sad thing that was happening outside the gate of his palace , proposed to Miranda that she should be driven in her chariot all round the town , which was to be illuminated with thousands and thousands of torches , placed in windows and balconies , and in all the grand squares .
But what a sight met her eyes at the very entrance of the palace !
There lay her dear , kind sheep , silent and motionless , upon the pavement !
She threw herself out of the chariot and ran to him , crying bitterly , for she realized that her broken promise had cost him his life , and for a long , long time she was so unhappy that they thought she would have died too .
So you see that even a princess is not always happy -- especially if she forgets to keep her word ; and the greatest misfortunes often happen to people just as they think they have obtained their heart 's desires !
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Madame d'Aulnoy .
LITTLE THUMB There was , once upon a time , a man and his wife fagot-makers by trade , who had several children , all boys .
The eldest was but ten years old , and the youngest only seven .
They were very poor , and their seven children incommoded them greatly , because not one of them was able to earn his bread .
That which gave them yet more uneasiness was that the youngest was of a very puny constitution , and scarce ever spoke a word , which made them take that for stupidity which was a sign of good sense .
He was very little , and when born no bigger than one 's thumb , which made him be called Little Thumb .
The poor child bore the blame of whatsoever was done amiss in the house , and , guilty or not , was always in the wrong ; he was , notwithstanding , more cunning and had a far greater share of wisdom than all his brothers put together ; and , if he spake little , he heard and thought the more .
There happened now to come a very bad year , and the famine was so great that these poor people resolved to rid themselves of their children .
One evening , when they were all in bed and the fagot-maker was sitting with his wife at the fire , he said to her , with his heart ready to burst with grief : `` Thou seest plainly that we are not able to keep our children , and I can not see them starve to death before my face ; I am resolved to lose them in the wood to-morrow , which may very easily be done ; for , while they are busy in tying up fagots , we may run away , and leave them , without their taking any notice . ''
`` Ah ! ''
cried his wife ; `` and canst thou thyself have the heart to take thy children out along with thee on purpose to lose them ? ''
In vain did her husband represent to her their extreme poverty : she would not consent to it ; she was indeed poor , but she was their mother .
However , having considered what a grief it would be to her to see them perish with hunger , she at last consented , and went to bed all in tears .
Little Thumb heard every word that had been spoken ; for observing , as he lay in his bed , that they were talking very busily , he got up softly , and hid himself under his father 's stool , that he might hear what they said without being seen .
He went to bed again , but did not sleep a wink all the rest of the night , thinking on what he had to do .
He got up early in the morning , and went to the river-side , where he filled his pockets full of small white pebbles , and then returned home .
They all went abroad , but Little Thumb never told his brothers one syllable of what he knew .
They went into a very thick forest , where they could not see one another at ten paces distance .
The fagot-maker began to cut wood , and the children to gather up the sticks to make fagots .
Their father and mother , seeing them busy at their work , got away from them insensibly , and ran away from them all at once , along a by-way through the winding bushes .
When the children saw they were left alone , they began to cry as loud as they could .
Little Thumb let them cry on , knowing very well how to get home again , for , as he came , he took care to drop all along the way the little white pebbles he had in his pockets .
Then he said to them : `` Be not afraid , brothers ; father and mother have left us here , but I will lead you home again , only follow me . ''
They did so , and he brought them home by the very same way they came into the forest .
They dared not go in , but sat themselves down at the door , listening to what their father and mother were saying .
The very moment the fagot-maker and his wife reached home the lord of the manor sent them ten crowns , which he had owed them a long while , and which they never expected .
This gave them new life , for the poor people were almost famished .
The fagot-maker sent his wife immediately to the butcher 's .
As it was a long while since they had eaten a bit , she bought thrice as much meat as would sup two people .
When they had eaten , the woman said : `` Alas !
where are now our poor children ?
they would make a good feast of what we have left here ; but it was you , William , who had a mind to lose them : I told you we should repent of it .
What are they now doing in the forest ?
Alas !
dear God , the wolves have perhaps already eaten them up ; thou art very inhuman thus to have lost thy children . ''
The fagot-maker grew at last quite out of patience , for she repeated it above twenty times , that they should repent of it , and that she was in the right of it for so saying .
He threatened to beat her if she did not hold her tongue .
It was not that the fagot-maker was not , perhaps , more vexed than his wife , but that she teased him , and that he was of the humor of a great many others , who love wives to speak well , but think those very importunate who are continually doing so .
She was half-drowned in tears , crying out : `` Alas !
where are now my children , my poor children ? ''
She spoke this so very loud that the children , who were at the gate , began to cry out all together : `` Here we are !
Here we are ! ''
She ran immediately to open the door , and said , hugging them : `` I am glad to see you , my dear children ; you are very hungry and weary ; and my poor Peter , thou art horribly bemired ; come in and let me clean thee . ''
Now , you must know that Peter was her eldest son , whom she loved above all the rest , because he was somewhat carroty , as she herself was .
They sat down to supper , and ate with such a good appetite as pleased both father and mother , whom they acquainted how frightened they were in the forest , speaking almost always all together .
The good folks were extremely glad to see their children once more at home , and this joy continued while the ten crowns lasted ; but , when the money was all gone , they fell again into their former uneasiness , and resolved to lose them again ; and , that they might be the surer of doing it , to carry them to a much greater distance than before .
They could not talk of this so secretly but they were overheard by Little Thumb , who made account to get out of this difficulty as well as the former ; but , though he got up very early in the morning to go and pick up some little pebbles , he was disappointed , for he found the house-door double-locked , and was at a stand what to do .
When their father had given each of them a piece of bread for their breakfast , Little Thumb fancied he might make use of this instead of the pebbles by throwing it in little bits all along the way they should pass ; and so he put the bread in his pocket .
Their father and mother brought them into the thickest and most obscure part of the forest , when , stealing away into a by-path , they there left them .
Little Thumb was not very uneasy at it , for he thought he could easily find the way again by means of his bread , which he had scattered all along as he came ; but he was very much surprised when he could not find so much as one crumb ; the birds had come and had eaten it up , every bit .
They were now in great affliction , for the farther they went the more they were out of their way , and were more and more bewildered in the forest .
Night now came on , and there arose a terribly high wind , which made them dreadfully afraid .
They fancied they heard on every side of them the howling of wolves coming to eat them up .
They scarce dared to speak or turn their heads .
After this , it rained very hard , which wetted them to the skin ; their feet slipped at every step they took , and they fell into the mire , whence they got up in a very dirty pickle ; their hands were quite benumbed .
Little Thumb climbed up to the top of a tree , to see if he could discover anything ; and having turned his head about on every side , he saw at last a glimmering light , like that of a candle , but a long way from the forest .
He came down , and , when upon the ground , he could see it no more , which grieved him sadly .
However , having walked for some time with his brothers toward that side on which he had seen the light , he perceived it again as he came out of the wood .
They came at last to the house where this candle was , not without an abundance of fear : for very often they lost sight of it , which happened every time they came into a bottom .
They knocked at the door , and a good woman came and opened it ; she asked them what they would have .
Little Thumb told her they were poor children who had been lost in the forest , and desired to lodge there for God 's sake .
The woman , seeing them so very pretty , began to weep , and said to them : `` Alas !
poor babies ; whither are ye come ?
Do ye know that this house belongs to a cruel ogre who eats up little children ? ''
`` Ah !
dear madam , '' answered Little Thumb -LRB- who trembled every joint of him , as well as his brothers -RRB- , `` what shall we do ?
To be sure the wolves of the forest will devour us to-night if you refuse us to lie here ; and so we would rather the gentleman should eat us ; and perhaps he may take pity upon us , especially if you please to beg it of him . ''
The Ogre 's wife , who believed she could conceal them from her husband till morning , let them come in , and brought them to warm themselves at a very good fire ; for there was a whole sheep upon the spit , roasting for the Ogre 's supper .
As they began to be a little warm they heard three or four great raps at the door ; this was the Ogre , who had come home .
Upon this she hid them under the bed and went to open the door .
The Ogre presently asked if supper was ready and the wine drawn , and then sat himself down to table .
The sheep was as yet all raw and bloody ; but he liked it the better for that .
He sniffed about to the right and left , saying : `` I smell fresh meat . ''
`` What you smell so , '' said his wife , `` must be the calf which I have just now killed and flayed . ''
`` I smell fresh meat , I tell thee once more , '' replied the Ogre , looking crossly at his wife ; `` and there is something here which I do not understand . ''
As he spoke these words he got up from the table and went directly to the bed .
`` Ah , ah ! ''
said he ; `` I see then how thou wouldst cheat me , thou cursed woman ; I know not why I do not eat thee up too , but it is well for thee that thou art a tough old carrion .
Here is good game , which comes very quickly to entertain three ogres of my acquaintance who are to pay me a visit in a day or two . ''
With that he dragged them out from under the bed one by one .
The poor children fell upon their knees , and begged his pardon ; but they had to do with one of the most cruel ogres in the world , who , far from having any pity on them , had already devoured them with his eyes , and told his wife they would be delicate eating when tossed up with good savory sauce .
He then took a great knife , and , coming up to these poor children , whetted it upon a great whet-stone which he held in his left hand .
He had already taken hold of one of them when his wife said to him : `` Why need you do it now ?
Is it not time enough to-morrow ? ''
`` Hold your prating , '' said the Ogre ; `` they will eat the tenderer .
`` But you have so much meat already , '' replied his wife , `` you have no occasion ; here are a calf , two sheep , and half a hog . ''
`` That is true , '' said the Ogre ; `` give them their belly full that they may not fall away , and put them to bed . ''
The good woman was overjoyed at this , and gave them a good supper ; but they were so much afraid they could not eat a bit .
As for the Ogre , he sat down again to drink , being highly pleased that he had got wherewithal to treat his friends .
He drank a dozen glasses more than ordinary , which got up into his head and obliged him to go to bed .
The Ogre had seven daughters , all little children , and these young ogresses had all of them very fine complexions , because they used to eat fresh meat like their father ; but they had little gray eyes , quite round , hooked noses , and very long sharp teeth , standing at a good distance from each other .
They were not as yet over and above mischievous , but they promised very fair for it , for they had already bitten little children , that they might suck their blood .
They had been put to bed early , with every one a crown of gold upon her head .
There was in the same chamber a bed of the like bigness , and it was into this bed the Ogre 's wife put the seven little boys , after which she went to bed to her husband .
Little Thumb , who had observed that the Ogre 's daughters had crowns of gold upon their heads , and was afraid lest the Ogre should repent his not killing them , got up about midnight , and , taking his brothers ' bonnets and his own , went very softly and put them upon the heads of the seven little ogresses , after having taken off their crowns of gold , which he put upon his own head and his brothers ' , that the Ogre might take them for his daughters , and his daughters for the little boys whom he wanted to kill .
All this succeeded according to his desire ; for , the Ogre waking about midnight , and sorry that he deferred to do that till morning which he might have done over-night , threw himself hastily out of bed , and , taking his great knife , `` Let us see , '' said he , `` how our little rogues do , and not make two jobs of the matter . ''
He then went up , groping all the way , into his daughters ' chamber , and , coming to the bed where the little boys lay , and who were every soul of them fast asleep , except Little Thumb , who was terribly afraid when he found the Ogre fumbling about his head , as he had done about his brothers ' , the Ogre , feeling the golden crowns , said : `` I should have made a fine piece of work of it , truly ; I find I drank too much last night . ''
Then he went to the bed where the girls lay ; and , having found the boys ' little bonnets , `` Ah ! ''
said he , `` my merry lads , are you there ?
Let us work as we ought . ''
And saying these words , without more ado , he cut the throats of all his seven daughters .
Well pleased with what he had done , he went to bed again to his wife .
So soon as Little Thumb heard the Ogre snore , he waked his brothers , and bade them all put on their clothes presently and follow him .
They stole down softly into the garden , and got over the wall .
They kept running about all night , and trembled all the while , without knowing which way they went .
The Ogre , when he awoke , said to his wife : `` Go upstairs and dress those young rascals who came here last night . ''
The wife was very much surprised at this goodness of her husband , not dreaming after what manner she should dress them ; but , thinking that he had ordered her to go and put on their clothes , she went up , and was strangely astonished when she perceived her seven daughters killed , and weltering in their blood .
She fainted away , for this is the first expedient almost all women find in such cases .
The Ogre , fearing his wife would be too long in doing what he had ordered , went up himself to help her .
He was no less amazed than his wife at this frightful spectacle .
`` Ah !
what have I done ? ''
cried he .
`` The wretches shall pay for it , and that instantly . ''
He threw a pitcher of water upon his wife 's face , and , having brought her to herself , said : `` Give me quickly my boots of seven leagues , that I may go and catch them . ''
He went out , and , having run over a vast deal of ground , both on this side and that , he came at last into the very road where the poor children were , and not above a hundred paces from their father 's house .
They espied the Ogre , who went at one step from mountain to mountain , and over rivers as easily as the narrowest kennels .
Little Thumb , seeing a hollow rock near the place where they were , made his brothers hide themselves in it , and crowded into it himself , minding always what would become of the Ogre .
The Ogre , who found himself much tired with his long and fruitless journey -LRB- for these boots of seven leagues greatly fatigued the wearer -RRB- , had a great mind to rest himself , and , by chance , went to sit down upon the rock where the little boys had hid themselves .
As it was impossible he could be more weary than he was , he fell asleep , and , after reposing himself some time , began to snore so frightfully that the poor children were no less afraid of him than when he held up his great knife and was going to cut their throats .
Little Thumb was not so much frightened as his brothers , and told them that they should run away immediately toward home while the Ogre was asleep so soundly , and that they should not be in any pain about him .
They took his advice , and got home presently .
Little Thumb came up to the Ogre , pulled off his boots gently and put them on his own legs .
The boots were very long and large , but , as they were fairies , they had the gift of becoming big and little , according to the legs of those who wore them ; so that they fitted his feet and legs as well as if they had been made on purpose for him .
He went immediately to the Ogre 's house , where he saw his wife crying bitterly for the loss of the Ogre 's murdered daughters .
`` Your husband , '' said Little Thumb , `` is in very great danger , being taken by a gang of thieves , who have sworn to kill him if he does not give them all his gold and silver .
The very moment they held their daggers at his throat he perceived me , and desired me to come and tell you the condition he is in , and that you should give me whatsoever he has of value , without retaining any one thing ; for otherwise they will kill him without mercy ; and , as his case is very pressing , he desired me to make use -LRB- you see I have them on -RRB- of his boots , that I might make the more haste and to show you that I do not impose upon you . ''
The good woman , being sadly frightened , gave him all she had : for this Ogre was a very good husband , though he used to eat up little children .
Little Thumb , having thus got all the Ogre 's money , came home to his father 's house , where he was received with abundance of joy .
There are many people who do not agree in this circumstance , and pretend that Little Thumb never robbed the Ogre at all , and that he only thought he might very justly , and with a safe conscience , take off his boots of seven leagues , because he made no other use of them but to run after little children .
These folks affirm that they are very well assured of this , and the more as having drunk and eaten often at the fagot-maker 's house .
They aver that when Little Thumb had taken off the Ogre 's boots he went to Court , where he was informed that they were very much in pain about a certain army , which was two hundred leagues off , and the success of a battle .
He went , say they , to the King , and told him that , if he desired it , he would bring him news from the army before night .
The King promised him a great sum of money upon that condition .
Little Thumb was as good as his word , and returned that very same night with the news ; and , this first expedition causing him to be known , he got whatever he pleased , for the King paid him very well for carrying his orders to the army .
After having for some time carried on the business of a messenger , and gained thereby great wealth , he went home to his father , where it was impossible to express the joy they were all in at his return .
He made the whole family very easy , bought places for his father and brothers , and , by that means , settled them very handsomely in the world , and , in the meantime , made his court to perfection .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
THE FORTY THIEVES In a town in Persia there dwelt two brothers , one named Cassim , the other Ali Baba .
Cassim was married to a rich wife and lived in plenty , while Ali Baba had to maintain his wife and children by cutting wood in a neighboring forest and selling it in the town .
One day , when Ali Baba was in the forest , he saw a troop of men on horseback , coming toward him in a cloud of dust .
He was afraid they were robbers , and climbed into a tree for safety .
When they came up to him and dismounted , he counted forty of them .
They unbridled their horses and tied them to trees .
The finest man among them , whom Ali Baba took to be their captain , went a little way among some bushes , and said : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- so plainly that Ali Baba heard him .
A door opened in the rocks , and having made the troop go in , he followed them , and the door shut again of itself .
They stayed some time inside , and Ali Baba , fearing they might come out and catch him , was forced to sit patiently in the tree .
At last the door opened again , and the Forty Thieves came out .
As the Captain went in last he came out first , and made them all pass by him ; he then closed the door , saying : `` Shut , Sesame ! ''
Every man bridled his horse and mounted , the Captain put himself at their head , and they returned as they came .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- Sesame is a kind of grain .
Then Ali Baba climbed down and went to the door concealed among the bushes , and said : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
and it flew open .
Ali Baba , who expected a dull , dismal place , was greatly surprised to find it large and well lighted , hollowed by the hand of man in the form of a vault , which received the light from an opening in the ceiling .
He saw rich bales of merchandise -- silk , stuff-brocades , all piled together , and gold and silver in heaps , and money in leather purses .
He went in and the door shut behind him .
He did not look at the silver , but brought out as many bags of gold as he thought his asses , which were browsing outside , could carry , loaded them with the bags , and hid it all with fagots .
Using the words : `` Shut , Sesame ! ''
he closed the door and went home .
Then he drove his asses into the yard , shut the gates , carried the money-bags to his wife , and emptied them out before her .
He bade her keep the secret , and he would go and bury the gold .
`` Let me first measure it , '' said his wife .
`` I will go borrow a measure of someone , while you dig the hole . ''
So she ran to the wife of Cassim and borrowed a measure .
Knowing Ali Baba 's poverty , the sister was curious to find out what sort of grain his wife wished to measure , and artfully put some suet at the bottom of the measure .
Ali Baba 's wife went home and set the measure on the heap of gold , and filled it and emptied it often , to her great content .
She then carried it back to her sister , without noticing that a piece of gold was sticking to it , which Cassim 's wife perceived directly her back was turned .
She grew very curious , and said to Cassim when he came home : `` Cassim , your brother is richer than you .
He does not count his money , he measures it . ''
He begged her to explain this riddle , which she did by showing him the piece of money and telling him where she found it .
Then Cassim grew so envious that he could not sleep , and went to his brother in the morning before sunrise .
`` Ali Baba , '' he said , showing him the gold piece , `` you pretend to be poor and yet you measure gold . ''
By this Ali Baba perceived that through his wife 's folly Cassim and his wife knew their secret , so he confessed all and offered Cassim a share .
`` That I expect , '' said Cassim ; `` but I must know where to find the treasure , otherwise I will discover all , and you will lose all . ''
Ali Baba , more out of kindness than fear , told him of the cave , and the very words to use .
Cassim left Ali Baba , meaning to be beforehand with him and get the treasure for himself .
He rose early next morning , and set out with ten mules loaded with great chests .
He soon found the place , and the door in the rock .
He said : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
and the door opened and shut behind him .
He could have feasted his eyes all day on the treasures , but he now hastened to gather together as much of it as possible ; but when he was ready to go he could not remember what to say for thinking of his great riches .
Instead of `` Sesame , '' he said : `` Open , Barley ! ''
and the door remained fast .
He named several different sorts of grain , all but the right one , and the door still stuck fast .
He was so frightened at the danger he was in that he had as much forgotten the word as if he had never heard it .
About noon the robbers returned to their cave , and saw Cassim 's mules roving about with great chests on their backs .
This gave them the alarm ; they drew their sabres , and went to the door , which opened on their Captain 's saying : `` Open , Sesame ! ''
Cassim , who had heard the trampling of their horses ' feet , resolved to sell his life dearly , so when the door opened he leaped out and threw the Captain down .
In vain , however , for the robbers with their sabres soon killed him .
On entering the cave they saw all the bags laid ready , and could not imagine how anyone had got in without knowing their secret .
They cut Cassim 's body into four quarters , and nailed them up inside the cave , in order to frighten anyone who should venture in , and went away in search of more treasure .
As night drew on Cassim 's wife grew very uneasy , and ran to her brother-in-law , and told him where her husband had gone .
Ali Baba did his best to comfort her , and set out to the forest in search of Cassim .
The first thing he saw on entering the cave was his dead brother .
Full of horror , he put the body on one of his asses , and bags of gold on the other two , and , covering all with some fagots , returned home .
He drove the two asses laden with gold into his own yard , and led the other to Cassim 's house .
The door was opened by the slave Morgiana , whom he knew to be both brave and cunning .
Unloading the ass , he said to her : `` This is the body of your master , who has been murdered , but whom we must bury as though he had died in his bed .
I will speak with you again , but now tell your mistress I am come . ''
The wife of Cassim , on learning the fate of her husband , broke out into cries and tears , but Ali Baba offered to take her to live with him and his wife if she would promise to keep his counsel and leave everything to Morgiana ; whereupon she agreed , and dried her eyes .
Morgiana , meanwhile , sought an apothecary and asked him for some lozenges .
`` My poor master , '' she said , `` can neither eat nor speak , and no one knows what his distemper is . ''
She carried home the lozenges and returned next day weeping , and asked for an essence only given to those just about to die .
Thus , in the evening , no one was surprised to hear the wretched shrieks and cries of Cassim 's wife and Morgiana , telling everyone that Cassim was dead .
The day after Morgiana went to an old cobbler near the gates of the town who opened his stall early , put a piece of gold in his hand , and bade him follow her with his needle and thread .
Having bound his eyes with a handkerchief , she took him to the room where the body lay , pulled off the bandage , and bade him sew the quarters together , after which she covered his eyes again and led him home .
Then they buried Cassim , and Morgiana his slave followed him to the grave , weeping and tearing her hair , while Cassim 's wife stayed at home uttering lamentable cries .
Next day she went to live with Ali Baba , who gave Cassim 's shop to his eldest son .
The Forty Thieves , on their return to the cave , were much astonished to find Cassim 's body gone and some of their money-bags .
`` We are certainly discovered , '' said the Captain , `` and shall be undone if we can not find out who it is that knows our secret .
Two men must have known it ; we have killed one , we must now find the other .
To this end one of you who is bold and artful must go into the city dressed as a traveler , and discover whom we have killed , and whether men talk of the strange manner of his death .
If the messenger fails he must lose his life , lest we be betrayed . ''
One of the thieves started up and offered to do this , and after the rest had highly commended him for his bravery he disguised himself , and happened to enter the town at daybreak , just by Baba Mustapha 's stall .
The thief bade him good-day , saying : `` Honest man , how can you possibly see to stitch at your age ? ''
`` Old as I am , '' replied the cobbler , `` I have very good eyes , and will you believe me when I tell you that I sewed a dead body together in a place where I had less light than I have now . ''
The robber was overjoyed at his good fortune , and , giving him a piece of gold , desired to be shown the house where he stitched up the dead body .
At first Mustapha refused , saying that he had been blindfolded ; but when the robber gave him another piece of gold he began to think he might remember the turnings if blindfolded as before .
This means succeeded ; the robber partly led him , and was partly guided by him , right in front of Cassim 's house , the door of which the robber marked with a piece of chalk .
Then , well pleased , he bade farewell to Baba Mustapha and returned to the forest .
By and by Morgiana , going out , saw the mark the robber had made , quickly guessed that some mischief was brewing , and fetching a piece of chalk marked two or three doors on each side , without saying anything to her master or mistress .
The thief , meantime , told his comrades of his discovery .
The Captain thanked him , and bade him show him the house he had marked .
But when they came to it they saw that five or six of the houses were chalked in the same manner .
The guide was so confounded that he knew not what answer to make , and when they returned he was at once beheaded for having failed .
Another robber was dispatched , and , having won over Baba Mustapha , marked the house in red chalk ; but Morgiana being again too clever for them , the second messenger was put to death also .
The Captain now resolved to go himself , but , wiser than the others , he did not mark the house , but looked at it so closely that he could not fail to remember it .
He returned , and ordered his men to go into the neighboring villages and buy nineteen mules , and thirty-eight leather jars , all empty except one , which was full of oil .
The Captain put one of his men , fully armed , into each , rubbing the outside of the jars with oil from the full vessel .
Then the nineteen mules were loaded with thirty-seven robbers in jars , and the jar of oil , and reached the town by dusk .
The Captain stopped his mules in front of Ali Baba 's house , and said to Ali Baba , who was sitting outside for coolness : `` I have brought some oil from a distance to sell at to-morrow 's market , but it is now so late that I know not where to pass the night , unless you will do me the favor to take me in . ''
Though Ali Baba had seen the Captain of the robbers in the forest , he did not recognize him in the disguise of an oil merchant .
He bade him welcome , opened his gates for the mules to enter , and went to Morgiana to bid her prepare a bed and supper for his guest .
He brought the stranger into his hall , and after they had supped went again to speak to Morgiana in the kitchen , while the Captain went into the yard under pretense of seeing after his mules , but really to tell his men what to do .
Beginning at the first jar and ending at the last , he said to each man : `` As soon as I throw some stones from the window of the chamber where I lie , cut the jars open with your knives and come out , and I will be with you in a trice . ''
He returned to the house , and Morgiana led him to his chamber .
She then told Abdallah , her fellow-slave , to set on the pot to make some broth for her master , who had gone to bed .
Meanwhile her lamp went out , and she had no more oil in the house .
`` Do not be uneasy , '' said Abdallah ; `` go into the yard and take some out of one of those jars . ''
Morgiana thanked him for his advice , took the oil pot , and went into the yard .
When she came to the first jar the robber inside said softly : `` Is it time ? ''
Any other slave but Morgiana , on finding a man in the jar instead of the oil she wanted , would have screamed and made a noise ; but she , knowing the danger her master was in , bethought herself of a plan , and answered quietly : `` Not yet , but presently . ''
She went to all the jars , giving the same answer , till she came to the jar of oil .
She now saw that her master , thinking to entertain an oil merchant , had let thirty-eight robbers into his house .
She filled her oil pot , went back to the kitchen , and , having lit her lamp , went again to the oil jar and filled a large kettle full of oil .
When it boiled she went and poured enough oil into every jar to stifle and kill the robber inside .
When this brave deed was done she went back to the kitchen , put out the fire and the lamp , and waited to see what would happen .
In a quarter of an hour the Captain of the robbers awoke , got up , and opened the window .
As all seemed quiet , he threw down some little pebbles which hit the jars .
He listened , and as none of his men seemed to stir he grew uneasy , and went down into the yard .
On going to the first jar and saying , `` Are you asleep ? ''
he smelt the hot boiled oil , and knew at once that his plot to murder Ali Baba and his household had been discovered .
He found all the gang was dead , and , missing the oil out of the last jar , became aware of the manner of their death .
He then forced the lock of a door leading into a garden , and climbing over several walls made his escape .
Morgiana heard and saw all this , and , rejoicing at her success , went to bed and fell asleep .
At daybreak Ali Baba arose , and , seeing the oil jars still there , asked why the merchant had not gone with his mules .
Morgiana bade him look in the first jar and see if there was any oil .
Seeing a man , he started back in terror .
`` Have no fear , '' said Morgiana ; `` the man can not harm you : he is dead . ''
Ali Baba , when he had recovered somewhat from his astonishment , asked what had become of the merchant .
`` Merchant ! ''
said she , `` he is no more a merchant than I am ! ''
and she told him the whole story , assuring him that it was a plot of the robbers of the forest , of whom only three were left , and that the white and red chalk marks had something to do with it .
Ali Baba at once gave Morgiana her freedom , saying that he owed her his life .
They then buried the bodies in Ali Baba 's garden , while the mules were sold in the market by his slaves .
The Captain returned to his lonely cave , which seemed frightful to him without his lost companions , and firmly resolved to avenge them by killing Ali Baba .
He dressed himself carefully , and went into the town , where he took lodgings in an inn .
In the course of a great many journeys to the forest he carried away many rich stuffs and much fine linen , and set up a shop opposite that of Ali Baba 's son .
He called himself Cogia Hassan , and as he was both civil and well dressed he soon made friends with Ali Baba 's son , and through him with Ali Baba , whom he was continually asking to sup with him .
Ali Baba , wishing to return his kindness , invited him into his house and received him smiling , thanking him for his kindness to his son .
When the merchant was about to take his leave Ali Baba stopped him , saying : `` Where are you going , sir , in such haste ?
Will you not stay and sup with me ? ''
The merchant refused , saying that he had a reason ; and , on Ali Baba 's asking him what that was , he replied : `` It is , sir , that I can eat no victuals that have any salt in them . ''
`` If that is all , '' said Ali Baba , `` let me tell you that there shall be no salt in either the meat or the bread that we eat to-night . ''
He went to give this order to Morgiana , who was much surprised .
`` Who is this man , '' she said , `` who eats no salt with his meat ? ''
`` He is an honest man , Morgiana , '' returned her master ; `` therefore do as I bid you . ''
But she could not withstand a desire to see this strange man , so she helped Abdallah to carry up the dishes , and saw in a moment that Cogia Hassan was the robber Captain , and carried a dagger under his garment .
`` I am not surprised , '' she said to herself , `` that this wicked man , who intends to kill my master , will eat no salt with him ; but I will hinder his plans . ''
She sent up the supper by Abdallah , while she made ready for one of the boldest acts that could be thought on .
When the dessert had been served , Cogia Hassan was left alone with Ali Baba and his son , whom he thought to make drunk and then to murder them .
Morgiana , meanwhile , put on a head-dress like a dancing-girl 's , and clasped a girdle round her waist , from which hung a dagger with a silver hilt , and said to Abdallah : `` Take your tabor , and let us go and divert our master and his guest . ''
Abdallah took his tabor and played before Morgiana until they came to the door , where Abdallah stopped playing and Morgiana made a low courtesy .
`` Come in , Morgiana , '' said Ali Baba , `` and let Cogia Hassan see what you can do '' ; and , turning to Cogia Hassan , he said : `` She 's my slave and my housekeeper . ''
Cogia Hassan was by no means pleased , for he feared that his chance of killing Ali Baba was gone for the present ; but he pretended great eagerness to see Morgiana , and Abdallah began to play and Morgiana to dance .
After she had performed several dances she drew her dagger and made passes with it , sometimes pointing it at her own breast , sometimes at her master 's , as if it were part of the dance .
Suddenly , out of breath , she snatched the tabor from Abdallah with her left hand , and , holding the dagger in her right hand , held out the tabor to her master .
Ali Baba and his son put a piece of gold into it , and Cogia Hassan , seeing that she was coming to him , pulled out his purse to make her a present , but while he was putting his hand into it Morgiana plunged the dagger into his heart .
`` Unhappy girl ! ''
cried Ali Baba and his son , `` what have you done to ruin us ? ''
`` It was to preserve you , master , not to ruin you , '' answered Morgiana .
`` See here , '' opening the false merchant 's garment and showing the dagger ; `` see what an enemy you have entertained !
Remember , he would eat no salt with you , and what more would you have ?
Look at him !
he is both the false oil merchant and the Captain of the Forty Thieves . ''
Ali Baba was so grateful to Morgiana for thus saving his life that he offered her to his son in marriage , who readily consented , and a few days after the wedding was celebrated with greatest splendor .
At the end of a year Ali Baba , hearing nothing of the two remaining robbers , judged they were dead , and set out to the cave .
The door opened on his saying : `` Open Sesame ! ''
He went in , and saw that nobody had been there since the Captain left it .
He brought away as much gold as he could carry , and returned to town .
He told his son the secret of the cave , which his son handed down in his turn , so the children and grandchildren of Ali Baba were rich to the end of their lives .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
HANSEL AND GRETTEL Once upon a time there dwelt on the outskirts of a large forest a poor woodcutter with his wife and two children ; the boy was called Hansel and the girl Grettel .
He had always little enough to live on , and once , when there was a great famine in the land , he could n't even provide them with daily bread .
One night , as he was tossing about in bed , full of cares and worry , he sighed and said to his wife : `` What 's to become of us ?
how are we to support our poor children , now that we have nothing more for ourselves ? ''
`` I 'll tell you what , husband , '' answered the woman ; `` early to-morrow morning we 'll take the children out into the thickest part of the wood ; there we shall light a fire for them and give them each a piece of bread ; then we 'll go on to our work and leave them alone .
They wo n't be able to find their way home , and we shall thus be rid of them . ''
`` No , wife , '' said her husband , `` that I wo n't do ; how could I find it in my heart to leave my children alone in the wood ?
The wild beasts would soon come and tear them to pieces . ''
`` Oh !
you fool , '' said she , `` then we must all four die of hunger , and you may just as well go and plane the boards for our coffins '' ; and she left him no peace till he consented .
`` But I ca n't help feeling sorry for the poor children , '' added the husband .
The children , too , had not been able to sleep for hunger , and had heard what their step-mother had said to their father .
Grettel wept bitterly and spoke to Hansel : `` Now it 's all up with us . ''
`` No , no , Grettel , '' said Hansel , `` do n't fret yourself ; I 'll be able to find a way to escape , no fear . ''
And when the old people had fallen asleep he got up , slipped on his little coat , opened the back door and stole out .
The moon was shining clearly , and the white pebbles which lay in front of the house glittered like bits of silver .
Hansel bent down and filled his pocket with as many of them as he could cram in .
Then he went back and said to Grettel : `` Be comforted , my dear little sister , and go to sleep : God will not desert us '' ; and he lay down in bed again .
At daybreak , even before the sun was up , the woman came and woke the two children : `` Get up , you lie-abeds , we 're all going to the forest to fetch wood . ''
She gave them each a bit of bread and said : `` There 's something for your luncheon , but do n't you eat it up before , for it 's all you 'll get . ''
Grettel took the bread under her apron , as Hansel had the stones in his pocket .
Then they all set out together on the way to the forest .
After they had walked for a little , Hansel stood still and looked back at the house , and this maneuver he repeated again and again .
His father observed him , and said : `` Hansel , what are you gazing at there , and why do you always remain behind ?
Take care , and do n't lose your footing . ''
`` Oh !
father , '' said Hansel , `` I am looking back at my white kitten , which is sitting on the roof , waving me a farewell . ''
The woman exclaimed : `` What a donkey you are !
that is n't your kitten , that 's the morning sun shining on the chimney . ''
But Hansel had not looked back at his kitten , but had always dropped one of the white pebbles out of his pocket on to the path .
When they had reached the middle of the forest the father said : `` Now , children , go and fetch a lot of wood , and I 'll light a fire that you may not feel cold . ''
Hansel and Grettel heaped up brushwood till they had made a pile nearly the size of a small hill .
The brushwood was set fire to , and when the flames leaped high the woman said : `` Now lie down at the fire , children , and rest yourselves : we are going into the forest to cut down wood ; when we 've finished we 'll come back and fetch you . ''
Hansel and Grettel sat down beside the fire , and at midday ate their little bits of bread .
They heard the strokes of the axe , so they thought their father was quite near .
But it was no axe they heard , but a bough he had tied on a dead tree , and that was blown about by the wind .
And when they had sat for a long time their eyes closed with fatigue , and they fell fast asleep .
When they awoke at last it was pitch dark .
Grettel began to cry , and said : `` How are we ever to get out of the wood ? ''
But Hansel comforted her .
`` Wait a bit , '' he said , `` till the moon is up , and then we 'll find our way sure enough . ''
And when the full moon had risen he took his sister by the hand and followed the pebbles , which shone like new threepenny bits , and showed them the path .
They walked on through the night , and at daybreak reached their father 's house again .
They knocked at the door , and when the woman opened it she exclaimed : `` You naughty children , what a time you 've slept in the wood !
we thought you were never going to come back . ''
But the father rejoiced , for his conscience had reproached him for leaving his children behind by themselves .
Not long afterward there was again great dearth in the land , and the children heard their mother address their father thus in bed one night : `` Everything is eaten up once more ; we have only half a loaf in the house , and when that 's done it 's all up with us .
The children must be got rid of ; we 'll lead them deeper into the wood this time , so that they wo n't be able to find their way out again .
There is no other way of saving ourselves . ''
The man 's heart smote him heavily , and he thought : `` Surely it would be better to share the last bite with one 's children ! ''
But his wife would n't listen to his arguments , and did nothing but scold and reproach him .
If a man yields once he 's done for , and so , because he had given in the first time , he was forced to do so the second .
But the children were awake , and had heard the conversation .
When the old people were asleep Hansel got up , and wanted to go out and pick up pebbles again , as he had done the first time ; but the woman had barred the door , and Hansel could n't get out .
But he consoled his little sister , and said : `` Do n't cry , Grettel , and sleep peacefully , for God is sure to help us . ''
At early dawn the woman came and made the children get up .
They received their bit of bread , but it was even smaller than the time before .
On the way to the wood Hansel crumbled it in his pocket , and every few minutes he stood still and dropped a crumb on the ground .
`` Hansel , what are you stopping and looking about you for ? ''
said the father .
`` I 'm looking back at my little pigeon , which is sitting on the roof waving me a farewell , '' answered Hansel .
`` Fool ! ''
said the wife ; `` that is n't your pigeon , it 's the morning sun glittering on the chimney . ''
But Hansel gradually threw all his crumbs on the path .
The woman led the children still deeper into the forest farther than they had ever been in their lives before .
Then a big fire was lit again , and the mother said : `` Just sit down there , children , and if you 're tired you can sleep a bit ; we 're going into the forest to cut down wood , and in the evening when we 're finished we 'll come back to fetch you . ''
At midday Grettel divided her bread with Hansel , for he had strewn his all along their path .
Then they fell asleep , and evening passed away , but nobody came to the poor children .
They did n't awake till it was pitch dark , and Hansel comforted his sister , saying : `` Only wait , Grettel , till the moon rises , then we shall see the bread-crumbs I scattered along the path ; they will show us the way back to the house . ''
When the moon appeared they got up , but they found no crumbs , for the thousands of birds that fly about the woods and fields had picked them all up .
`` Never mind , '' said Hansel to Grettel ; `` you 'll see we 'll find a way out '' ; but all the same they did not .
They wandered about the whole night , and the next day , from morning till evening , but they could not find a path out of the wood .
They were very hungry , too , for they had nothing to eat but a few berries they found growing on the ground .
And at last they were so tired that their legs refused to carry them any longer , so they lay down under a tree and fell fast asleep .
On the third morning after they had left their father 's house they set about their wandering again , but only got deeper and deeper into the wood , and now they felt that if help did not come to them soon they must perish .
At midday they saw a beautiful little snow-white bird sitting on a branch , which sang so sweetly that they stopped still and listened to it .
And when its song was finished it flapped its wings and flew on in front of them .
They followed it and came to a little house , on the roof of which it perched ; and when they came quite near they saw that the cottage was made of bread and roofed with cakes , while the window was made of transparent sugar .
`` Now we 'll set to , '' said Hansel , `` and have a regular blow-out .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- I 'll eat a bit of the roof , and you , Grettel , can eat some of the window , which you 'll find a sweet morsel . ''
Hansel stretched up his hand and broke off a little bit of the roof to see what it was like , and Grettel went to the casement and began to nibble at it .
Thereupon a shrill voice called out from the room inside : `` Nibble , nibble , little mouse , Who 's nibbling my house ? ''
The children answered : `` Tis Heaven 's own child , The tempest wild , '' and went on eating , without putting themselves about .
Hansel , who thoroughly appreciated the roof , tore down a big bit of it , while Grettel pushed out a whole round window-pane , and sat down the better to enjoy it .
Suddenly the door opened , and an ancient dame leaning on a staff hobbled out .
Hansel and Grettel were so terrified that they let what they had in their hands fall .
But the old woman shook her head and said : `` Oh , ho !
you dear children , who led you here ?
Just come in and stay with me , no ill shall befall you . ''
She took them both by the hand and let them into the house , and laid a most sumptuous dinner before them -- milk and sugared pancakes , with apples and nuts .
After they had finished , two beautiful little white beds were prepared for them , and when Hansel and Grettel lay down in them they felt as if they had got into heaven .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- He was a vulgar boy !
The old woman had appeared to be most friendly , but she was really an old witch who had waylaid the children , and had only built the little bread house in order to lure them in .
When anyone came into her power she killed , cooked , and ate him , and held a regular feast-day for the occasion .
Now witches have red eyes , and can not see far , but , like beasts , they have a keen sense of smell , and know when human beings pass by .
When Hansel and Grettel fell into her hands she laughed maliciously , and said jeeringly : `` I 've got them now ; they sha 'n' t escape me . ''
Early in the morning , before the children were awake , she rose up , and when she saw them both sleeping so peacefully , with their round rosy cheeks , she muttered to herself : `` That 'll be a dainty bite . ''
Then she seized Hansel with her bony hand and carried him into a little stable , and barred the door on him ; he might scream as much as he liked , it did him no good .
Then she went to Grettel , shook her till she awoke , and cried : `` Get up , you lazy-bones , fetch water and cook something for your brother .
When he 's fat I 'll eat him up . ''
Grettel began to cry bitterly , but it was of no use ; she had to do what the wicked witch bade her .
So the best food was cooked for poor Hansel , but Grettel got nothing but crab-shells .
Every morning the old woman hobbled out to the stable and cried : `` Hansel , put out your finger , that I may feel if you are getting fat . ''
But Hansel always stretched out a bone , and the old dame , whose eyes were dim , could n't see it , and thinking always it was Hansel 's finger , wondered why he fattened so slowly .
When four weeks had passed and Hansel still remained thin , she lost patience and determined to wait no longer .
`` Hi , Grettel , '' she called to the girl , `` be quick and get some water .
Hansel may be fat or thin , I 'm going to kill him to-morrow and cook him . ''
Oh !
how the poor little sister sobbed as she carried the water , and how the tears rolled down her cheeks !
`` Kind heaven help us now ! ''
she cried ; `` if only the wild beasts in the wood had eaten us , then at least we should have died together . ''
`` Just hold your peace , '' said the old hag ; `` it wo n't help you . ''
Early in the morning Grettel had to go out and hang up the kettle full of water , and light the fire .
`` First we 'll bake , '' said the old dame ; `` I 've heated the oven already and kneaded the dough . ''
She pushed Grettel out to the oven , from which fiery flames were already issuing .
`` Creep in , '' said the witch , `` and see if it 's properly heated , so that we can shove in the bread . ''
For when she had got Grettel in she meant to close the oven and let the girl bake , that she might eat her up too .
But Grettel perceived her intention , and said : `` I do n't know how I 'm to do it ; how do I get in ? ''
`` You silly goose ! ''
said the hag , `` the opening is big enough ; see , I could get in myself , '' and she crawled toward it , and poked her head into the oven .
Then Grettel gave her a shove that sent her right in , shut the iron door , and drew the bolt .
Gracious !
how she yelled , it was quite horrible ; but Grettel fled , and the wretched old woman was left to perish miserably .
Grettel flew straight to Hansel , opened the little stable-door , and cried : `` Hansel , we are free ; the old witch is dead . ''
Then Hansel sprang like a bird out of a cage when the door is opened .
How they rejoiced , and fell on each other 's necks , and jumped for joy , and kissed one another !
And as they had no longer any cause for fear , they went in the old hag 's house , and here they found , in every corner of the room , boxes with pearls and precious stones .
`` These are even better than pebbles , '' said Hansel , and crammed his pockets full of them ; and Grettel said : `` I too will bring something home , '' and she filled her apron full .
`` But now , '' said Hansel , `` let 's go and get well away from the witch 's wood . ''
When they had wandered about for some hours they came to a big lake .
`` We ca n't get over , '' said Hansel ; `` I see no bridge of any sort or kind . ''
`` Yes , and there 's no ferry-boat either , '' answered Grettel ; `` but look , there swims a white duck ; if I ask her she 'll help us over , '' and she called out : `` Here are two children , mournful very , Seeing neither bridge nor ferry ; Take us upon your white back , And row us over , quack , quack ! ''
The duck swam toward them , and Hansel got on her back and bade his little sister sit beside him .
`` No , '' answered Grettel , `` we should be too heavy a load for the duck : she shall carry us across separately . ''
The good bird did this , and when they were landed safely on the other side , and had gone for a while , the wood became more and more familiar to them , and at length they saw their father 's house in the distance .
Then they set off to run , and bounding into the room fell on their father 's neck .
The man had not passed a happy hour since he left them in the wood , but the woman had died .
Grettel shook out her apron so that the pearls and precious stones rolled about the room , and Hansel threw down one handful after the other out of his pocket .
Thus all their troubles were ended , and they lived happily ever afterward .
My story is done .
See !
there runs a little mouse ; anyone who catches it may make himself a large fur cap out of it .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
SNOW-WHITE AND ROSE-RED A poor widow once lived in a little cottage with a garden in front of it , in which grew two rose trees , one bearing white roses and the other red .
She had two children , who were just like the two rose trees ; one was called Snow-white and the other Rose-red , and they were the sweetest and best children in the world , always diligent and always cheerful ; but Snow-white was quieter and more gentle than Rose-red .
Rose-red loved to run about the fields and meadows , and to pick flowers and catch butterflies ; but Snow-white sat at home with her mother and helped her in the household , or read aloud to her when there was no work to do .
The two children loved each other so dearly that they always walked about hand in hand whenever they went out together , and when Snow-white said , `` We will never desert each other , '' Rose-red answered : `` No , not as long as we live '' ; and the mother added : `` Whatever one gets she shall share with the other . ''
They often roamed about in the woods gathering berries and no beast offered to hurt them ; on the contrary , they came up to them in the most confiding manner ; the little hare would eat a cabbage leaf from their hands , the deer grazed beside them , the stag would bound past them merrily , and the birds remained on the branches and sang to them with all their might .
No evil ever befell them ; if they tarried late in the wood and night overtook them , they lay down together on the moss and slept till morning , and their mother knew they were quite safe , and never felt anxious about them .
Once , when they had slept all night in the wood and had been wakened by the morning sun , they perceived a beautiful child in a shining white robe sitting close to their resting-place .
The figure got up , looked at them kindly , but said nothing , and vanished into the wood .
And when they looked round about them they became aware that they had slept quite close to a precipice , over which they would certainly have fallen had they gone on a few steps further in the darkness .
And when they told their mother of their adventure , she said what they had seen must have been the angel that guards good children .
Snow-white and Rose-red kept their mother 's cottage so beautifully clean and neat that it was a pleasure to go into it .
In summer Rose-red looked after the house , and every morning before her mother awoke she placed a bunch of flowers before the bed , from each tree a rose .
In winter Snow-white lit the fire and put on the kettle , which was made of brass , but so beautifully polished that it shone like gold .
In the evening when the snowflakes fell their mother said : `` Snow-white , go and close the shutters , '' and they drew round the fire , while the mother put on her spectacles and read aloud from a big book and the two girls listened and sat and span .
Beside them on the ground lay a little lamb , and behind them perched a little white dove with its head tucked under its wings .
One evening as they sat thus cosily together someone knocked at the door as though he desired admittance .
The mother said : `` Rose-red , open the door quickly ; it must be some traveler seeking shelter . ''
Rose-red hastened to unbar the door , and thought she saw a poor man standing in the darkness outside ; but it was no such thing , only a bear , who poked his thick black head through the door .
Rose-red screamed aloud and sprang back in terror , the lamb began to bleat , the dove flapped its wings , and Snow-white ran and hid behind her mother 's bed .
But the bear began to speak , and said : `` Do n't be afraid : I wo n't hurt you .
I am half frozen , and only wish to warm myself a little . ''
`` My poor bear , '' said the mother , `` lie down by the fire , only take care you do n't burn your fur . ''
Then she called out : `` Snow-white and Rose-red , come out ; the bear will do you no harm ; he is a good , honest creature . ''
So they both came out of their hiding-places , and gradually the lamb and dove drew near too , and they all forgot their fear .
The bear asked the children to beat the snow a little out of his fur , and they fetched a brush and scrubbed him till he was dry .
Then the beast stretched himself in front of the fire , and growled quite happily and comfortably .
The children soon grew quite at their ease with him , and led their helpless guest a fearful life .
They tugged his fur with their hands , put their small feet on his back , and rolled him about here and there , or took a hazel wand and beat him with it ; and if he growled they only laughed .
The bear submitted to everything with the best possible good-nature , only when they went too far he cried : `` Oh !
children , spare my life !
`` Snow-white and Rose-red , Do n't beat your lover dead . ''
When it was time to retire for the night , and the others went to bed , the mother said to the bear : `` You can lie there on the hearth , in heaven 's name ; it will be shelter for you from the cold and wet . ''
As soon as day dawned the children led him out , and he trotted over the snow into the wood .
From this time on the bear came every evening at the same hour , and lay down by the hearth and let the children play what pranks they liked with him ; and they got so accustomed to him that the door was never shut till their black friend had made his appearance .
When spring came , and all outside was green , the bear said one morning to Snow-white : `` Now I must go away , and not return again the whole summer . ''
`` Where are you going to , dear bear ? ''
asked Snow-white .
`` I must go to the wood and protect my treasure from the wicked dwarfs .
In winter , when the earth is frozen hard , they are obliged to remain underground , for they ca n't work their way through ; but now , when the sun has thawed and warmed the ground , they break through and come up above to spy the land and steal what they can ; what once falls into their hands and into their caves is not easily brought back to light . ''
Snow-white was quite sad over their friend 's departure , and when she unbarred the door for him , the bear , stepping out , caught a piece of his fur in the door-knocker , and Snow-white thought she caught sight of glittering gold beneath it , but she could n't be certain of it ; and the bear ran hastily away , and soon disappeared behind the trees .
A short time after this the mother sent the children into the wood to collect fagots .
They came in their wanderings upon a big tree which lay felled on the ground , and on the trunk among the long grass they noticed something jumping up and down , but what it was they could n't distinguish .
When they approached nearer they perceived a dwarf with a wizened face and a beard a yard long .
The end of the beard was jammed into a cleft of the tree , and the little man sprang about like a dog on a chain , and did n't seem to know what he was to do .
He glared at the girls with his fiery red eyes , and screamed out : `` What are you standing there for ?
Ca n't you come and help me ? ''
`` What were you doing , little man ? ''
asked Rose-red .
`` You stupid , inquisitive goose ! ''
replied the dwarf ; `` I wanted to split the tree , in order to get little chips of wood for our kitchen fire ; those thick logs that serve to make fires for coarse , greedy people like yourselves quite burn up all the little food we need .
I had successfully driven in the wedge , and all was going well , but the cursed wood was so slippery that it suddenly sprang out , and the tree closed up so rapidly that I had no time to take my beautiful white beard out , so here I am stuck fast , and I ca n't get away ; and you silly , smooth-faced , milk-and-water girls just stand and laugh !
Ugh !
what wretches you are ! ''
The children did all in their power , but they could n't get the beard out ; it was wedged in far too firmly .
`` I will run and fetch somebody , '' said Rose-red .
`` Crazy blockheads ! ''
snapped the dwarf ; `` what 's the good of calling anyone else ?
You 're already two too many for me .
Does nothing better occur to you than that ? ''
`` Do n't be so impatient , '' said Snow-white , `` I 'll see you get help , '' and taking her scissors out of her pocket she cut off the end of his beard .
As soon as the dwarf felt himself free he seized a bag full of gold which was hidden among the roots of the tree , lifted it up , and muttered aloud : `` Curse these rude wretches , cutting off a piece of my splendid beard ! ''
With these words he swung the bag over his back , and disappeared without as much as looking at the children again .
Shortly after this Snow-white and Rose-red went out to get a dish of fish .
As they approached the stream they saw something which looked like an enormous grasshopper springing toward the water as if it were going to jump in .
They ran forward and recognized their old friend the dwarf .
`` Where are you going to ? ''
asked Rose-red ; `` you 're surely not going to jump into the water ? ''
`` I 'm not such a fool , '' screamed the dwarf .
`` Do n't you see that cursed fish is trying to drag me in ? ''
The little man had been sitting on the bank fishing , when unfortunately the wind had entangled his beard in the line ; and when immediately afterward a big fish bit , the feeble little creature had no strength to pull it out ; the fish had the upper fin , and dragged the dwarf toward him .
He clung on with all his might to every rush and blade of grass , but it did n't help him much ; he had to follow every movement of the fish , and was in great danger of being drawn into the water .
The girls came up just at the right moment , held him firm , and did all they could to disentangle his beard from the line ; but in vain , beard and line were in a hopeless muddle .
Nothing remained but to produce the scissors and cut the beard , by which a small part of it was sacrificed .
When the dwarf perceived what they were about he yelled to them : `` Do you call that manners , you toad-stools !
to disfigure a fellow 's face ?
It was n't enough that you shortened my beard before , but you must now needs cut off the best bit of it .
I ca n't appear like this before my own people .
I wish you 'd been in Jericho first . ''
Then he fetched a sack of pearls that lay among the rushes , and without saying another word he dragged it away and disappeared behind a stone .
It happened that soon after this the mother sent the two girls to the town to buy needles , thread , laces , and ribbons .
Their road led over a heath where huge boulders of rock lay scattered here and there .
While trudging along they saw a big bird hovering in the air , circling slowly above them , but always descending lower , till at last it settled on a rock not far from them .
Immediately afterward they heard a sharp , piercing cry .
They ran forward , and saw with horror that the eagle had pounced on their old friend the dwarf , and was about to carry him off .
The tender-hearted children seized hold of the little man , and struggled so long with the bird that at last he let go his prey .
When the dwarf had recovered from the first shock he screamed in his screeching voice : `` Could n't you have treated me more carefully ?
You have torn my thin little coat all to shreds , useless , awkward hussies that you are ! ''
Then he took a bag of precious stones and vanished under the rocks into his cave .
The girls were accustomed to his ingratitude , and went on their way and did their business in town .
On their way home , as they were again passing the heath , they surprised the dwarf pouring out his precious stones on an open space , for he had thought no one would pass by at so late an hour .
The evening sun shone on the glittering stones , and they glanced and gleamed so beautifully that the children stood still and gazed on them .
`` What are you standing there gaping for ? ''
screamed the dwarf , and his ashen-gray face became scarlet with rage .
He was about to go off with these angry words when a sudden growl was heard , and a black bear trotted out of the wood .
The dwarf jumped up in great fright , but he had n't time to reach his place of retreat , for the bear was already close to him .
Then he cried in terror : `` Dear Mr. Bear , spare me !
I 'll give you all my treasure .
Look at those beautiful precious stones lying there .
Spare my life !
what pleasure would you get from a poor feeble little fellow like me ?
You wo n't feel me between your teeth .
There , lay hold of these two wicked girls , they will be a tender morsel for you , as fat as young quails ; eat them up , for heaven 's sake . ''
But the bear , paying no attention to his words , gave the evil little creature one blow with his paw , and he never moved again .
The girls had run away , but the bear called after them : `` Snow-white and Rose-red , do n't be afraid ; wait , and I 'll come with you . ''
Then they recognized his voice and stood still , and when the bear was quite close to them his skin suddenly fell off , and a beautiful man stood beside them , all dressed in gold .
`` I am a king 's son , '' he said , `` and have been doomed by that unholy little dwarf , who had stolen my treasure , to roam about the woods as a wild bear till his death should set me free .
Now he has got his well-merited punishment . ''
Snow-white married him , and Rose-red his brother , and they divided the great treasure the dwarf had collected in his cave between them .
The old mother lived for many years peacefully with her children ; and she carried the two rose trees with her , and they stood in front of her window , and every year they bore the finest red and white roses .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
THE GOOSE-GIRL Once upon a time an old queen , whose husband had been dead for many years , had a beautiful daughter .
When she grew up she was betrothed to a prince who lived a great way off .
Now , when the time drew near for her to be married and to depart into a foreign kingdom , her old mother gave her much costly baggage , and many ornaments , gold and silver , trinkets and knicknacks , and , in fact , everything that belonged to a royal trousseau , for she loved her daughter very dearly .
She gave her a waiting-maid also , who was to ride with her and hand her over to the bridegroom , and she provided each of them with a horse for the journey .
Now the Princess 's horse was called Falada , and could speak .
When the hour for departure drew near the old mother went to her bedroom , and taking a small knife she cut her fingers till they bled ; then she held a white rag under them , and letting three drops of blood fall into it , she gave it to her daughter , and said : `` Dear child , take great care of this rag : it may be of use to you on the journey . ''
So they took a sad farewell of each other , and the Princess stuck the rag in front of her dress , mounted her horse , and set forth on the journey to her bridegroom 's kingdom .
After they had ridden for about an hour the Princess began to feel very thirsty , and said to her waiting-maid : `` Pray get down and fetch me some water in my golden cup out of yonder stream : I would like a drink . ''
`` If you 're thirsty , '' said the maid , `` dismount yourself , and lie down by the water and drink ; I do n't mean to be your servant any longer . ''
The Princess was so thirsty that she got down , bent over the stream , and drank , for she was n't allowed to drink out of the golden goblet .
As she drank she murmured : `` Oh !
heaven , what am I to do ? ''
and the three drops of blood replied : `` If your mother only knew , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
But the Princess was meek , and said nothing about her maid 's rude behavior , and quietly mounted her horse again .
They rode on their way for several miles , but the day was hot , and the sun 's rays smote fiercely on them , so that the Princess was soon overcome by thirst again .
And as they passed a brook she called once more to her waiting-maid : `` Pray get down and give me a drink from my golden cup , '' for she had long ago forgotten her maid 's rude words .
But the waiting-maid replied , more haughtily even than before : `` If you want a drink , you can dismount and get it ; I do n't mean to be your servant . ''
Then the Princess was compelled by her thirst to get down , and bending over the flowing water she cried and said : `` Oh !
heaven , what am I to do ? ''
and the three drops of blood replied : `` If your mother only knew , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
And as she drank thus , and leaned right over the water , the rag containing the three drops of blood fell from her bosom and floated down the stream , and she in her anxiety never even noticed her loss .
But the waiting-maid had observed it with delight , as she knew it gave her power over the bride , for in losing the drops of blood the Princess had become weak and powerless .
When she wished to get on her horse Falada again , the waiting-maid called out : `` I mean to ride Falada : you must mount my beast '' ; and this too she had to submit to .
Then the waiting-maid commanded her harshly to take off her royal robes , and to put on her common ones , and finally she made her swear by heaven not to say a word about the matter when they reached the palace ; and if she had n't taken this oath she would have been killed on the spot .
But Falada observed everything , and laid it all to heart .
The waiting-maid now mounted Falada , and the real bride the worse horse , and so they continued their journey till at length they arrived at the palace yard .
There was great rejoicing over the arrival , and the Prince sprang forward to meet them , and taking the waiting-maid for his bride , he lifted her down from her horse and led her upstairs to the royal chamber .
In the meantime the real Princess was left standing below in the courtyard .
The old King , who was looking out of his window , beheld her in this plight , and it struck him how sweet and gentle , even beautiful , she looked .
He went at once to the royal chamber , and asked the bride who it was she had brought with her and had left thus standing in the court below .
`` Oh ! ''
replied the bride , `` I brought her with me to keep me company on the journey ; give the girl something to do , that she may not be idle . ''
But the old King had no work for her , and could n't think of anything ; so he said , `` I 've a small boy who looks after the geese , she 'd better help him . ''
The youth 's name was Curdken , and the real bride was made to assist him in herding geese .
Soon after this the false bride said to the Prince : `` Dearest husband , I pray you grant me a favor . ''
He answered : `` That I will . ''
`` Then let the slaughterer cut off the head of the horse I rode here upon , because it behaved very badly on the journey . ''
But the truth was she was afraid lest the horse should speak and tell how she had treated the Princess .
She carried her point , and the faithful Falada was doomed to die .
When the news came to the ears of the real Princess she went to the slaughterer , and secretly promised him a piece of gold if he would do something for her .
There was in the town a large dark gate , through which she had to pass night and morning with the geese ; would he `` kindly hang up Falada 's head there , that she might see it once again ? ''
The slaughterer said he would do as she desired , chopped off the head , and nailed it firmly over the gateway .
Early next morning , as she and Curdken were driving their flock through the gate , she said as she passed under : `` Oh !
Falada , 't is you hang there '' ; and the head replied : '' 'T is you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only knew , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
Then she left the tower and drove the geese into a field .
And when they had reached the common where the geese fed she sat down and unloosed her hair , which was of pure gold .
Curdken loved to see it glitter in the sun , and wanted much to pull some hair out .
Then she spoke : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my locks of ruddy gold , Now astray and hanging down , Be combed and plaited in a crown . ''
Then a gust of wind blew Curdken 's hat away , and he had to chase it over hill and dale .
When he returned from the pursuit she had finished her combing and curling , and his chance of getting any hair was gone .
Curdken was very angry , and would n't speak to her .
So they herded the geese till evening and then went home .
The next morning , as they passed under the gate , the girl said : `` Oh !
Falada , 't is you hang there ; '' and the head replied : '' 'T is you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only knew , Her heart would surely break in two . ''
Then she went on her way till she came to the common , where she sat down and began to comb out her hair ; then Curdken ran up to her and wanted to grasp some of the hair from her head , but she called out hastily : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my locks of ruddy gold , Now astray and hanging down , Be combed and plaited in a crown . ''
Then a puff of wind came and blew Curdken 's hat far away , so that he had to run after it ; and when he returned she had long finished putting up her golden locks , and he could n't get any hair ; so they watched the geese till it was dark .
But that evening when they got home Curdken went to the old King , and said : `` I refuse to herd geese any longer with that girl . ''
`` For what reason ? ''
asked the old King .
`` Because she does nothing but annoy me all day long , '' replied Curdken ; and he proceeded to relate all her iniquities , and said : `` Every morning as we drive the flock through the dark gate she says to a horse 's head that hangs on the wall : '' ` Oh !
Falada , 't is you hang there ' ; and the head replies : '' '' Tis you ; pass under , Princess fair : If your mother only knew , Her heart would surely break in two . ' ''
And Curdken went on to tell what passed on the common where the geese fed , and how he had always to chase his hat .
The old King bade him go and drive forth his flock as usual next day ; and when morning came he himself took up his position behind the dark gate , and heard how the goose-girl greeted Falada .
Then he followed her through the field , and hid himself behind a bush on the common .
He soon saw with his own eyes how the goose-boy and the goose-girl looked after the geese , and how after a time the maiden sat down and loosed her hair , that glittered like gold , and repeated : `` Wind , wind , gently sway , Blow Curdken 's hat away ; Let him chase o'er field and wold Till my locks of ruddy gold Now astray and hanging down , Be combed and plaited in a crown . ''
Then a gust of wind came and blew Curdken 's hat away , so that he had to fly over hill and dale after it , and the girl in the meantime quietly combed and plaited her hair : all this the old King observed , and returned to the palace without anyone having noticed him .
In the evening when the goose-girl came home he called her aside , and asked her why she behaved as she did .
`` I may not tell you why ; how dare I confide my woes to anyone ?
for I swore not to by heaven , otherwise I should have lost my life . ''
The old King begged her to tell him all , and left her no peace , but he could get nothing out of her .
At last he said : `` Well , if you wo n't tell me , confide your trouble to the iron stove there , '' and he went away .
Then she crept to the stove , and began to sob and cry and to pour out her poor little heart , and said : `` Here I sit , deserted by all the world , I who am a king 's daughter , and a false waiting-maid has forced me to take off my own clothes , and has taken my place with my bridegroom , while I have to fulfill the lowly office of goose-girl .
`` If my mother only knew Her heart would surely break in two . ''
But the old King stood outside at the stove chimney , and listened to her words .
Then he entered the room again , and bidding her leave the stove , he ordered royal apparel to be put on her , in which she looked amazingly lovely .
Then he summoned his son , and revealed to him that he had got the false bride , who was nothing but a waiting-maid , while the real one , in the guise of the ex-goose-girl , was standing at his side .
The young King rejoiced from his heart when he saw her beauty and learned how good she was , and a great banquet was prepared , to which everyone was bidden .
The bridegroom sat at the head of the table , the Princess on one side of him and the waiting-maid on the other ; but she was so dazzled that she did not recognize the Princess in her glittering garments .
Now when they had eaten and drunk , and were merry , the old King asked the waiting-maid to solve a knotty point for him .
`` What , '' said he , `` should be done to a certain person who has deceived everyone ? ''
and he proceeded to relate the whole story , ending up with , `` Now what sentence should be passed ? ''
Then the false bride answered : `` She deserves to be put stark naked into a barrel lined with sharp nails , which should be dragged by two white horses up and down the street till she is dead . ''
`` You are the person , '' said the King , `` and you have passed sentence on yourself ; and even so it shall be done to you . ''
And when the sentence had been carried out the young King was married to his real bride , and both reigned over the kingdom in peace and happiness .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
TOADS AND DIAMONDS THERE was once upon a time a widow who had two daughters .
The eldest was so much like her in the face and humor that whoever looked upon the daughter saw the mother .
They were both so disagreeable and so proud that there was no living with them .
The youngest , who was the very picture of her father for courtesy and sweetness of temper , was withal one of the most beautiful girls ever seen .
As people naturally love their own likeness , this mother even doted on her eldest daughter and at the same time had a horrible aversion for the youngest -- she made her eat in the kitchen and work continually .
Among other things , this poor child was forced twice a day to draw water above a mile and a-half off the house , and bring home a pitcher full of it .
One day , as she was at this fountain , there came to her a poor woman , who begged of her to let her drink .
`` Oh !
ay , with all my heart , Goody , '' said this pretty little girl ; and rinsing immediately the pitcher , she took up some water from the clearest place of the fountain , and gave it to her , holding up the pitcher all the while , that she might drink the easier .
The good woman , having drunk , said to her : `` You are so very pretty , my dear , so good and so mannerly , that I can not help giving you a gift . ''
For this was a fairy , who had taken the form of a poor country woman , to see how far the civility and good manners of this pretty girl would go .
`` I will give you for a gift , '' continued the Fairy , `` that , at every word you speak , there shall come out of your mouth either a flower or a jewel . ''
When this pretty girl came home her mother scolded her for staying so long at the fountain .
`` I beg your pardon , mamma , '' said the poor girl , `` for not making more haste . ''
And in speaking these words there came out of her mouth two roses , two pearls , and two diamonds .
`` What is it I see there ? ''
said the mother , quite astonished .
`` I think I see pearls and diamonds come out of the girl 's mouth !
How happens this , child ? ''
This was the first time she had ever called her child .
The poor creature told her frankly all the matter , not without dropping out infinite numbers of diamonds .
`` In good faith , '' cried the mother , `` I must send my child thither .
Come hither , Fanny ; look what comes out of thy sister 's mouth when she speaks .
Wouldst not thou be glad , my dear , to have the same gift given thee ?
Thou hast nothing else to do but go and draw water out of the fountain , and when a certain poor woman asks you to let her drink , to give it to her very civilly . ''
`` It would be a very fine sight indeed , '' said this ill-bred minx , `` to see me go draw water . ''
`` You shall go , hussy ! ''
said the mother ; `` and this minute . ''
So away she went , but grumbling all the way , taking with her the best silver tankard in the house .
She was no sooner at the fountain than she saw coming out of the wood a lady most gloriously dressed , who came up to her , and asked to drink .
This was , you must know , the very fairy who appeared to her sister , but now had taken the air and dress of a princess , to see how far this girl 's rudeness would go .
`` Am I come hither , '' said the proud , saucy one , `` to serve you with water , pray ?
I suppose the silver tankard was brought purely for your ladyship , was it ?
However , you may drink out of it , if you have a fancy . ''
`` You are not over and above mannerly , '' answered the Fairy , without putting herself in a passion .
`` Well , then , since you have so little breeding , and are so disobliging , I give you for a gift that at every word you speak there shall come out of your mouth a snake or a toad . ''
So soon as her mother saw her coming she cried out : `` Well , daughter ? ''
`` Well , mother ? ''
answered the pert hussy , throwing out of her mouth two vipers and two toads .
`` Oh !
mercy , '' cried the mother ; `` what is it I see ?
Oh !
it is that wretch her sister who has occasioned all this ; but she shall pay for it '' ; and immediately she ran to beat her .
The poor child fled away from her , and went to hide herself in the forest , not far from thence .
The King 's son , then on his return from hunting , met her , and seeing her so very pretty , asked her what she did there alone and why she cried .
`` Alas !
sir , my mamma has turned me out of doors . ''
The King 's son , who saw five or six pearls and as many diamonds come out of her mouth , desired her to tell him how that happened .
She thereupon told him the whole story ; and so the King 's son fell in love with her , and , considering himself that such a gift was worth more than any marriage portion , conducted her to the palace of the King his father , and there married her .
As for the sister , she made herself so much hated that her own mother turned her off ; and the miserable wretch , having wandered about a good while without finding anybody to take her in , went to a corner of the wood , and there died .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
PRINCE DARLING ONCE upon a time there lived a king who was so just and kind that his subjects called him `` the Good King . ''
It happened one day , when he was out hunting , that a little white rabbit , which his dogs were chasing , sprang into his arms for shelter .
The King stroked it gently , and said to it : `` Well , bunny , as you have come to me for protection I will see that nobody hurts you . ''
And he took it home to his palace and had it put in a pretty little house , with all sorts of nice things to eat .
That night , when he was alone in his room , a beautiful lady suddenly appeared before him ; her long dress was as white as snow , and she had a crown of white roses upon her head .
The good King was very much surprised to see her , for he knew his door had been tightly shut , and he could not think how she had got in .
But she said to him : `` I am the Fairy Truth .
I was passing through the wood when you were out hunting , and I wished to find out if you were really good , as everybody said you were , so I took the shape of a little rabbit and came to your arms for shelter , for I know that those who are merciful to animals will be still kinder to their fellow-men .
If you had refused to help me I should have been certain that you were wicked .
I thank you for the kindness you have shown me , which has made me your friend for ever .
You have only to ask me for anything you want and I promise that I will give it to you . ''
`` Madam , '' said the good King , `` since you are a fairy you no doubt know all my wishes .
I have but one son whom I love very dearly , that is why he is called Prince Darling .
If you are really good enough to wish to do me a favor , I beg that you will become his friend . ''
`` With all my heart , '' answered the Fairy .
`` I can make your son the handsomest prince in the world , or the richest , or the most powerful ; choose whichever you like for him . ''
`` I do not ask either of these things for my son , '' replied the good King ; `` but if you will make him the best of princes , I shall indeed be grateful to you .
What good would it do him to be rich , or handsome , or to possess all the kingdoms of the world if he were wicked ?
You know well he would still be unhappy .
Only a good man can be really contented . ''
`` You are quite right , '' answered the Fairy ; `` but it is not in my power to make Prince Darling a good man unless he will help me ; he must himself try hard to become good , I can only promise to give him good advice , to scold him for his faults , and to punish him if he will not correct and punish himself . ''
The good King was quite satisfied with this promise ; and very soon afterward he died .
Prince Darling was very sorry , for he loved his father with all his heart , and he would willingly have given all his kingdoms and all his treasures of gold and silver if they could have kept the good King with him .
Two days afterward , when the Prince had gone to bed , the Fairy suddenly appeared to him and said : `` I promised your father that I would be your friend , and to keep my word I have come to bring you a present . ''
At the same time she put a little gold ring upon his finger .
`` Take great care of this ring , '' she said : `` it is more precious than diamonds ; every time you do a bad deed it will prick your finger , but if , in spite of its pricking , you go on in your own evil way , you will lose my friendship , and I shall become your enemy . ''
So saying , the Fairy disappeared , leaving Prince Darling very much astonished .
For some time he behaved so well that the ring never pricked him , and that made him so contented that his subjects called him Prince Darling the Happy .
One day , however , he went out hunting , but could get no sport , which put him in a very bad temper ; it seemed to him as he rode along that his ring was pressing into his finger , but as it did not prick him he did not heed it .
When he got home and went to his own room , his little dog Bibi ran to meet him , jumping round him with pleasure .
`` Get away ! ''
said the Prince , quite gruffly .
`` I do n't want you , you are in the way . ''
The poor little dog , who did n't understand this at all , pulled at his coat to make him at least look at her , and this made Prince Darling so cross that he gave her quite a hard kick .
Instantly his ring pricked him sharply , as if it had been a pin .
He was very much surprised , and sat down in a corner of his room feeling quite ashamed of himself .
`` I believe the Fairy is laughing at me , '' he thought .
`` Surely I can have done no great wrong in just kicking a tiresome animal !
What is the good of my being ruler of a great kingdom if I am not even allowed to beat my own dog ? ''
`` I am not making fun of you , '' said a voice , answering Prince Darling 's thoughts .
`` You have committed three faults .
First of all , you were out of temper because you could not have what you wanted , and you thought all men and animals were only made to do your pleasure ; then you were really angry , which is very naughty indeed ; and lastly , you were cruel to a poor little animal who did not in the least deserve to be ill-treated .
`` I know you are far above a little dog , but if it were right and allowable that great people should ill-treat all who are beneath them , I might at this moment beat you , or kill you , for a fairy is greater than a man .
The advantage of possessing a great empire is not to be able to do the evil that one desires , but to do all the good that one possibly can . ''
The Prince saw how naughty he had been , and promised to try and do better in future , but he did not keep his word .
The fact was he had been brought up by a foolish nurse , who had spoiled him when he was little .
If he wanted anything he only had to cry and fret and stamp his feet and she would give him whatever he asked for , which had made him self-willed ; also she had told him from morning to night that he would one day be a king , and that kings were very happy , because everyone was bound to obey and respect them , and no one could prevent them from doing just as they liked .
When the Prince grew old enough to understand , he soon learned that there could be nothing worse than to be proud , obstinate , and conceited , and he had really tried to cure himself of these defects , but by that time all his faults had become habits ; and a bad habit is very hard to get rid of .
Not that he was naturally of a bad disposition ; he was truly sorry when he had been naughty , and said : `` I am very unhappy to have to struggle against my anger and pride every day ; if I had been punished for them when I was little they would not be such a trouble to me now . ''
His ring pricked him very often , and sometimes he left off what he was doing at once ; but at other times he would not attend to it .
Strangely enough , it gave him only a slight prick for a trifling fault , but when he was really naughty it made his finger actually bleed .
At last he got tired of being constantly reminded , and wanted to be able to do as he liked , so he threw his ring aside , and thought himself the happiest of men to have got rid of its teasing pricks .
He gave himself up to doing every foolish thing that occurred to him , until he became quite wicked and nobody could like him any longer .
One day , when the Prince was walking about , he saw a young girl who was so very pretty that he made up his mind at once that he would marry her .
Her name was Celia , and she was as good as she was beautiful .
Prince Darling fancied that Celia would think herself only too happy if he offered to make her a great queen , but she said fearlessly : `` Sire , I am only a shepherdess , and a poor girl , but , nevertheless , I will not marry you . ''
`` Do you dislike me ? ''
asked the Prince , who was very much vexed at this answer .
`` No , my Prince , '' replied Celia ; `` I can not help thinking you very handsome ; but what good would riches be to me , and all the grand dresses and splendid carriages that you would give me , if the bad deeds which I should see you do every day made me hate and despise you ? ''
The Prince was very angry at this speech , and commanded his officers to make Celia a prisoner and carry her off to his palace .
All day long the remembrance of what she had said annoyed him , but as he loved her he could not make up his mind to have her punished .
One of the Prince 's favorite companions was his foster-brother , whom he trusted entirely ; but he was not at all a good man , and gave Prince Darling very bad advice , and encouraged him in all his evil ways .
When he saw the Prince so downcast he asked what was the matter , and when he explained that he could not bear Celia 's bad opinion of him , and was resolved to be a better man in order to please her , this evil adviser said to him : `` You are very kind to trouble yourself about this little girl ; if I were you I would soon make her obey me .
Remember that you are a king , and that it would be laughable to see you trying to please a shepherdess , who ought to be only too glad to be one of your slaves .
Keep her in prison , and feed her on bread and water for a little while , and then , if she still says she will not marry you , have her head cut off , to teach other people that you mean to be obeyed .
Why , if you can not make a girl like that do as you wish , your subjects will soon forget that they are only put into this world for our pleasure . ''
`` But , '' said Prince Darling , `` would it not be a shame if I had an innocent girl put to death ?
For Celia has done nothing to deserve punishment . ''
`` If people will not do as you tell them they ought to suffer for it , '' answered his foster-brother ; `` but even if it were unjust , you had better be accused of that by your subjects than that they should find out that they may insult and thwart you as often as they please . ''
In saying this he was touching a weak point in his brother 's character ; for the Prince 's fear of losing any of his power made him at once abandon his first idea of trying to be good , and resolve to try and frighten the shepherdess into consenting to marry him .
His foster-brother , who wanted him to keep this resolution , invited three young courtiers , as wicked as himself to sup with the Prince , and they persuaded him to drink a great deal of wine , and continued to excite his anger against Celia by telling him that she had laughed at his love for her ; until at last , in quite a furious rage , he rushed off to find her , declaring that if she still refused to marry him she should be sold as a slave the very next day .
But when he reached the room in which Celia had been locked up , he was greatly surprised to find that she was not in it , though he had the key in his own pocket all the time .
His anger was terrible , and he vowed vengeance against whoever had helped her to escape .
His bad friends , when they heard him , resolved to turn his wrath upon an old nobleman who had formerly been his tutor ; and who still dared sometimes to tell the Prince of his faults , for he loved him as if he had been his own son .
At first Prince Darling had thanked him , but after a time he grew impatient and thought it must be just mere love of fault-finding that made his old tutor blame him when everyone else was praising and flattering him .
So he ordered him to retire from his Court , though he still , from time to time , spoke of him as a worthy man whom he respected , even if he no longer loved him .
His unworthy friends feared that he might some day take it into his head to recall his old tutor , so they thought they now had a good opportunity of getting him banished for ever .
They reported to the Prince that Suliman , for that was the tutor 's name , had boasted of having helped Celia to escape , and they bribed three men to say that Suliman himself had told them about it .
The Prince , in great anger , sent his foster-brother with a number of soldiers to bring his tutor before him , in chains , like a criminal .
After giving this order he went to his own room , but he had scarcely got into it when there was a clap of thunder which made the ground shake , and the Fairy Truth appeared suddenly before him .
`` I promised your father , '' said she sternly , `` to give you good advice , and to punish you if you refused to follow it .
You have despised my counsel , and have gone your own evil way until you are only outwardly a man ; really you are a monster -- the horror of everyone who knows you .
It is time that I should fulfil my promise , and begin your punishment .
I condemn you to resemble the animals whose ways you have imitated .
You have made yourself like the lion by your anger , and like the wolf by your greediness .
Like a snake , you have ungratefully turned upon one who was a second father to you ; your churlishness has made you like a bull .
Therefore , in your new form , take the appearance of all these animals . ''
The Fairy had scarcely finished speaking when Prince Darling saw to his horror that her words were fulfilled .
He had a lion 's head , a bull 's horns , a wolf 's feet , and a snake 's body .
At the same instant he found himself in a great forest , beside a clear lake , in which he could see plainly the horrible creature he had become , and a voice said to him : `` Look carefully at the state to which your wickedness has brought you ; believe me , your soul is a thousand times more hideous than your body . ''
Prince Darling recognized the voice of the Fairy Truth and turned in a fury to catch her and eat her up if he possibly could ; but he saw no one , and the same voice went on : `` I laugh at your powerlessness and anger , and I intend to punish your pride by letting you fall into the hands of your own subjects . ''
The Prince began to think that the best thing he could do would be to get as far away from the lake as he could , then at least he would not be continually reminded of his terrible ugliness .
So he ran toward the wood , but before he had gone many yards he fell into a deep pit which had been made to trap bears , and the hunters , who were hiding in a tree , leaped down , and secured him with several chains , and led him into the chief city of his own kingdom .
On the way , instead of recognizing that his own faults had brought this punishment upon him , he accused the Fairy of being the cause of all his misfortunes , and bit and tore at his chains furiously .
As they approached the town he saw that some great rejoicing was being held , and when the hunters asked what had happened they were told that the Prince , whose only pleasure it was to torment his people , had been found in his room , killed by a thunder-bolt -LRB- for that was what was supposed to have become of him -RRB- .
Four of his courtiers , those who had encouraged him in his wicked doings , had tried to seize the kingdom and divide it between them , but the people , who knew it was their bad counsels which had so changed the Prince , had cut off their heads , and had offered the crown to Suliman , whom the Prince had left in prison .
This noble lord had just been crowned , and the deliverance of the kingdom was the cause of the rejoicing `` For , '' they said , `` he is a good and just man , and we shall once more enjoy peace and prosperity . ''
Prince Darling roared with anger when he heard this ; but it was still worse for him when he reached the great square before his own palace .
He saw Suliman seated upon a magnificent throne , and all the people crowded round , wishing him a long life that he might undo all the mischief done by his predecessor .
Presently Suliman made a sign with his hand that the people should be silent , and said : `` I have accepted the crown you have offered me , but only that I may keep it for Prince Darling , who is not dead as you suppose ; the Fairy has assured me that there is still hope that you may some day see him again , good and virtuous as he was when he first came to the throne .
Alas ! ''
he continued , `` he was led away by flatterers .
I knew his heart , and am certain that if it had not been for the bad influence of those who surrounded him he would have been a good king and a father to his people .
We may hate his faults , but let us pity him and hope for his restoration .
As for me , I would die gladly if that could bring back our Prince to reign justly and worthily once more . ''
These words went to Prince Darling 's heart ; he realized the true affection and faithfulness of his old tutor , and for the first time reproached himself for all his evil deeds ; at the same instant he felt all his anger melting away , and he began quickly to think over his past life , and to admit that his punishment was not more than he had deserved .
He left off tearing at the iron bars of the cage in which he was shut up , and became as gentle as a lamb .
The hunters who had caught him took him to a great menagerie , where he was chained up among all the other wild beasts , and he determined to show his sorrow for his past bad behavior by being gentle and obedient to the man who had to take care of him .
Unfortunately , this man was very rough and unkind , and though the poor monster was quite quiet , he often beat him without rhyme or reason when he happened to be in a bad temper .
One day when this keeper was asleep a tiger broke its chain , and flew at him to eat him up .
Prince Darling , who saw what was going on , at first felt quite pleased to think that he should be delivered from his persecutor , but soon thought better of it and wished that he were free .
`` I would return good for evil , '' he said to himself , `` and save the unhappy man 's life . ''
He had hardly wished this when his iron cage flew open , and he rushed to the side of the keeper , who was awake and was defending himself against the tiger .
When he saw the monster had got out he gave himself up for lost , but his fear was soon changed into joy , for the kind monster threw itself upon the tiger and very soon killed it , and then came and crouched at the feet of the man it had saved .
Overcome with gratitude , the keeper stooped to caress the strange creature which had done him such a great service ; but suddenly a voice said in his ear : `` A good action should never go unrewarded , '' and at the same instant the monster disappeared , and he saw at his feet only a pretty little dog !
Prince Darling , delighted by the change , frisked about the keeper , showing his joy in every way he could , and the man , taking him up in his arms , carried him to the King , to whom he told the whole story .
The Queen said she would like to have this wonderful little dog , and the Prince would have been very happy in his new home if he could have forgotten that he was a man and a king .
The Queen petted and took care of him , but she was so afraid that he would get too fat that she consulted the court physician , who said that he was to be fed only upon bread , and was not to have much even of that .
So poor Prince Darling was terribly hungry all day long , but he was very patient about it .
One day , when they gave him his little loaf for breakfast , he thought he would like to eat it out in the garden ; so he took it up in his mouth and trotted away toward a brook that he knew of a long way from the palace .
But he was surprised to find that the brook was gone , and where it had been stood a great house that seemed to be built of gold and precious stones .
Numbers of people splendidly dressed were going into it , and sounds of music and dancing and feasting could be heard from the windows .
But what seemed very strange was that those people who came out of the house were pale and thin , and their clothes were torn , and hanging in rags about them .
Some fell down dead as they came out before they had time to get away ; others crawled farther with great difficulty ; while others again lay on the ground , fainting with hunger , and begged a morsel of bread from those who were going into the house , but they would not so much as look at the poor creatures .
Prince Darling went up to a young girl who was trying to eat a few blades of grass , she was so hungry .
Touched with compassion , he said to himself : `` I am very hungry , but I shall not die of starvation before I get my dinner ; if I give my breakfast to this poor creature perhaps I may save her life . ''
So he laid his piece of bread in the girl 's hand , and saw her eat it up eagerly .
She soon seemed to be quite well again , and the Prince , delighted to have been able to help her , was thinking of going home to the palace , when he heard a great outcry , and , turning round , saw Celia , who was being carried against her will into the great house .
For the first time the Prince regretted that he was no longer the monster , then he would have been able to rescue Celia ; now he could only bark feebly at the people who were carrying her off , and try to follow them , but they chased and kicked him away .
He determined not to quit the place till he knew what had become of Celia , and blamed himself for what had befallen her .
`` Alas ! ''
he said to himself , `` I am furious with the people who are carrying Celia off , but is n't that exactly what I did myself , and if I had not been prevented did I not intend to be still more cruel to her ? ''
Here he was interrupted by a noise above his head -- someone was opening a window , and he saw with delight that it was Celia herself , who came forward and threw out a plate of most delicious-looking food , then the window was shut again , and Prince Darling , who had not had anything to eat all day , thought he might as well take the opportunity of getting something .
He ran forward to begin , but the young girl to whom he had given his bread gave a cry of terror and took him up in her arms , saying : `` Do n't touch it , my poor little dog -- that house is the palace of pleasure , and everything that comes out of it is poisoned ! ''
At the same moment a voice said : `` You see a good action always brings its reward , '' and the Prince found himself changed into a beautiful white dove .
He remembered that white was the favorite color of the Fairy Truth , and began to hope that he might at last win back her favor .
But just now his first care was for Celia , and rising into the air he flew round and round the house , until he saw an open window ; but he searched through every room in vain .
No trace of Celia was to be seen , and the Prince , in despair , determined to search through the world till he found her .
He flew on and on for several days , till he came to a great desert , where he saw a cavern , and , to his delight , there sat Celia , sharing the simple breakfast of an old hermit .
Overjoyed to have found her , Prince Darling perched upon her shoulder , trying to express by his caresses how glad he was to see her again , and Celia , surprised and delighted by the tameness of this pretty white dove , stroked it softly , and said , though she never thought of its understanding her : `` I accept the gift that you make me of yourself , and I will love you always . ''
`` Take care what you are saying , Celia , '' said the old hermit ; `` are you prepared to keep that promise ? ''
`` Indeed , I hope so , my sweet shepherdess , '' cried the Prince , who was at that moment restored to his natural shape .
`` You promised to love me always ; tell me that you really mean what you said , or I shall have to ask the Fairy to give me back the form of the dove which pleased you so much . ''
`` You need not be afraid that she will change her mind , '' said the Fairy , throwing off the hermit 's robe in which she had been disguised and appearing before them .
`` Celia has loved you ever since she first saw you , only she would not tell you while you were so obstinate and naughty .
Now you have repented and mean to be good you deserve to be happy , and so she may love you as much as she likes . ''
Celia and Prince Darling threw themselves at the Fairy 's feet , and the Prince was never tired of thanking her for her kindness .
Celia was delighted to hear how sorry he was for all his past follies and misdeeds , and promised to love him as long as she lived .
`` Rise , my children , '' said the Fairy , `` and I will transport you to the palace , and Prince Darling shall have back again the crown he forfeited by his bad behavior . ''
While she was speaking , they found themselves in Suliman 's hall , and his delight was great at seeing his dear master once more .
He gave up the throne joyfully to the Prince , and remained always the most faithful of his subjects .
Celia and Prince Darling reigned for many years , but he was so determined to govern worthily and to do his duty that his ring , which he took to wearing again , never once pricked him severely .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Cabinet des Fees .
BLUE BEARD There was a man who had fine houses , both in town and country , a deal of silver and gold plate , embroidered furniture , and coaches gilded all over with gold .
But this man was so unlucky as to have a blue beard , which made him so frightfully ugly that all the women and girls ran away from him .
One of his neighbors , a lady of quality , had two daughters who were perfect beauties .
He desired of her one of them in marriage , leaving to her choice which of the two she would bestow on him .
They would neither of them have him , and sent him backward and forward from one another , not being able to bear the thoughts of marrying a man who had a blue beard , and what besides gave them disgust and aversion was his having already been married to several wives , and nobody ever knew what became of them .
Blue Beard , to engage their affection , took them , with the lady their mother and three or four ladies of their acquaintance , with other young people of the neighborhood , to one of his country seats , where they stayed a whole week .
There was nothing then to be seen but parties of pleasure , hunting , fishing , dancing , mirth , and feasting .
Nobody went to bed , but all passed the night in rallying and joking with each other .
In short , everything succeeded so well that the youngest daughter began to think the master of the house not to have a beard so very blue , and that he was a mighty civil gentleman .
As soon as they returned home , the marriage was concluded .
About a month afterward , Blue Beard told his wife that he was obliged to take a country journey for six weeks at least , about affairs of very great consequence , desiring her to divert herself in his absence , to send for her friends and acquaintances , to carry them into the country , if she pleased , and to make good cheer wherever she was .
`` Here , '' said he , `` are the keys of the two great wardrobes , wherein I have my best furniture ; these are of my silver and gold plate , which is not every day in use ; these open my strong boxes , which hold my money , both gold and silver ; these my caskets of jewels ; and this is the master-key to all my apartments .
But for this little one here , it is the key of the closet at the end of the great gallery on the ground floor .
Open them all ; go into all and every one of them , except that little closet , which I forbid you , and forbid it in such a manner that , if you happen to open it , there 's nothing but what you may expect from my just anger and resentment . ''
She promised to observe , very exactly , whatever he had ordered ; when he , after having embraced her , got into his coach and proceeded on his journey .
Her neighbors and good friends did not stay to be sent for by the new married lady , so great was their impatience to see all the rich furniture of her house , not daring to come while her husband was there , because of his blue beard , which frightened them .
They ran through all the rooms , closets , and wardrobes , which were all so fine and rich that they seemed to surpass one another .
After that they went up into the two great rooms , where was the best and richest furniture ; they could not sufficiently admire the number and beauty of the tapestry , beds , couches , cabinets , stands , tables , and looking-glasses , in which you might see yourself from head to foot ; some of them were framed with glass , others with silver , plain and gilded , the finest and most magnificent ever were seen .
They ceased not to extol and envy the happiness of their friend , who in the meantime in no way diverted herself in looking upon all these rich things , because of the impatience she had to go and open the closet on the ground floor .
She was so much pressed by her curiosity that , without considering that it was very uncivil to leave her company , she went down a little back staircase , and with such excessive haste that she had twice or thrice like to have broken her neck .
Coming to the closet-door , she made a stop for some time , thinking upon her husband 's orders , and considering what unhappiness might attend her if she was disobedient ; but the temptation was so strong she could not overcome it .
She then took the little key , and opened it , trembling , but could not at first see anything plainly , because the windows were shut .
After some moments she began to perceive that the floor was all covered over with clotted blood , on which lay the bodies of several dead women , ranged against the walls .
-LRB- These were all the wives whom Blue Beard had married and murdered , one after another . -RRB-
She thought she should have died for fear , and the key , which she pulled out of the lock , fell out of her hand .
After having somewhat recovered her surprise , she took up the key , locked the door , and went upstairs into her chamber to recover herself ; but she could not , she was so much frightened .
Having observed that the key of the closet was stained with blood , she tried two or three times to wipe it off , but the blood would not come out ; in vain did she wash it , and even rub it with soap and sand ; the blood still remained , for the key was magical and she could never make it quite clean ; when the blood was gone off from one side , it came again on the other .
Blue Beard returned from his journey the same evening , and said he had received letters upon the road , informing him that the affair he went about was ended to his advantage .
His wife did all she could to convince him she was extremely glad of his speedy return .
Next morning he asked her for the keys , which she gave him , but with such a trembling hand that he easily guessed what had happened .
`` What ! ''
said he , `` is not the key of my closet among the rest ? ''
`` I must certainly have left it above upon the table , '' said she .
`` Fail not to bring it to me presently , '' said Blue Beard .
After several goings backward and forward she was forced to bring him the key .
Blue Beard , having very attentively considered it , said to his wife , `` How comes this blood upon the key ? ''
`` I do not know , '' cried the poor woman , paler than death .
`` You do not know ! ''
replied Blue Beard .
`` I very well know .
You were resolved to go into the closet , were you not ?
Mighty well , madam ; you shall go in , and take your place among the ladies you saw there . ''
Upon this she threw herself at her husband 's feet , and begged his pardon with all the signs of true repentance , vowing that she would never more be disobedient .
She would have melted a rock , so beautiful and sorrowful was she ; but Blue Beard had a heart harder than any rock !
`` You must die , madam , '' said he , `` and that presently . ''
`` Since I must die , '' answered she -LRB- looking upon him with her eyes all bathed in tears -RRB- , `` give me some little time to say my prayers . ''
`` I give you , '' replied Blue Beard , `` half a quarter of an hour , but not one moment more . ''
When she was alone she called out to her sister , and said to her : `` Sister Anne '' -LRB- for that was her name -RRB- , `` go up , I beg you , upon the top of the tower , and look if my brothers are not coming over ; they promised me that they would come to-day , and if you see them , give them a sign to make haste . ''
Her sister Anne went up upon the top of the tower , and the poor afflicted wife cried out from time to time : `` Anne , sister Anne , do you see anyone coming ? ''
And sister Anne said : `` I see nothing but the sun , which makes a dust , and the grass , which looks green . ''
In the meanwhile Blue Beard , holding a great sabre in his hand , cried out as loud as he could bawl to his wife : `` Come down instantly , or I shall come up to you . ''
`` One moment longer , if you please , '' said his wife , and then she cried out very softly , `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou see anybody coming ? ''
And sister Anne answered : `` I see nothing but the sun , which makes a dust , and the grass , which is green . ''
`` Come down quickly , '' cried Blue Beard , `` or I will come up to you . ''
`` I am coming , '' answered his wife ; and then she cried , `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou not see anyone coming ? ''
`` I see , '' replied sister Anne , `` a great dust , which comes on this side here . ''
`` Are they my brothers ? ''
`` Alas !
no , my dear sister , I see a flock of sheep . ''
`` Will you not come down ? ''
cried Blue Beard `` One moment longer , '' said his wife , and then she cried out : `` Anne , sister Anne , dost thou see nobody coming ? ''
`` I see , '' said she , `` two horsemen , but they are yet a great way off . ''
`` God be praised , '' replied the poor wife joyfully ; `` they are my brothers ; I will make them a sign , as well as I can , for them to make haste . ''
Then Blue Beard bawled out so loud that he made the whole house tremble .
The distressed wife came down , and threw herself at his feet , all in tears , with her hair about her shoulders .
`` This signifies nothing , '' says Blue Beard ; `` you must die '' ; then , taking hold of her hair with one hand , and lifting up the sword with the other , he was going to take off her head .
The poor lady , turning about to him , and looking at him with dying eyes , desired him to afford her one little moment to recollect herself .
`` No , no , '' said he , `` recommend thyself to God , '' and was just ready to strike ... At this very instant there was such a loud knocking at the gate that Blue Beard made a sudden stop .
The gate was opened , and presently entered two horsemen , who , drawing their swords , ran directly to Blue Beard .
He knew them to be his wife 's brothers , one a dragoon , the other a musketeer , so that he ran away immediately to save himself ; but the two brothers pursued so close that they overtook him before he could get to the steps of the porch , when they ran their swords through his body and left him dead .
The poor wife was almost as dead as her husband , and had not strength enough to rise and welcome her brothers .
Blue Beard had no heirs , and so his wife became mistress of all his estate .
She made use of one part of it to marry her sister Anne to a young gentleman who had loved her a long while ; another part to buy captains commissions for her brothers , and the rest to marry herself to a very worthy gentleman , who made her forget the ill time she had passed with Blue Beard .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Charles Perrault .
TRUSTY JOHN Once upon a time there was an old king who was so ill that he thought to himself , `` I am most likely on my death-bed . ''
Then he said , `` Send Trusty John to me . ''
Now Trusty John was his favorite servant , and was so called because all his life he had served him so faithfully .
When he approached the bed the King spake to him : `` Most trusty John , I feel my end is drawing near , and I could face it without a care were it not for my son .
He is still too young to decide everything for himself , and unless you promise me to instruct him in all he should know , and to be to him as a father , I shall not close my eyes in peace . ''
Then Trusty John answered : `` I will never desert him , and will serve him faithfully , even though it should cost me my life . ''
Then the old King said : `` Now I die comforted and in peace '' ; and then he went on : `` After my death you must show him the whole castle , all the rooms and apartments and vaults , and all the treasures that lie in them ; but you must not show him the last room in the long passage , where the picture of the Princess of the Golden Roof is hidden .
When he beholds that picture he will fall violently in love with it and go off into a dead faint , and for her sake he will encounter many dangers ; you must guard him from this . ''
And when Trusty John had again given the King his hand upon it the old man became silent , laid his head on the pillow , and died .
When the old King had been carried to his grave Trusty John told the young King what he had promised his father on his death-bed , and added : `` And I shall assuredly keep my word , and shall be faithful to you as I have been to him , even though it should cost me my life . ''
Now when the time of mourning was over , Trusty John said to him : `` It is time you should see your inheritance .
I will show you your ancestral castle . ''
So he took him over everything , and let him see all the riches and splendid apartments , only the one room where the picture was he did not open .
But the picture was placed so that if the door opened you gazed straight upon it , and it was so beautifully painted that you imagined it lived and moved , and that it was the most lovable and beautiful thing in the whole world .
But the young King noticed that Trusty John always missed one door , and said : `` Why do you never open this one for me ? ''
`` There is something inside that would appall you , '' he answered .
But the King replied : `` I have seen the whole castle , and shall find out what is in there '' ; and with these words he approached the door and wanted to force it open .
But Trusty John held him back , and said : `` I promised your father before his death that you should n't see what that room contains .
It might bring both you and me to great grief . ''
`` Ah !
no , '' answered the young King ; `` if I do n't get in , it will be my certain destruction ; I should have no peace night or day till I had seen what was in the room with my own eyes .
Now I do n't budge from the spot till you have opened the door . ''
Then Trusty John saw there was no way out of it , so with a heavy heart and many sighs he took the key from the big bunch .
When he had opened the door he stepped in first , and thought to cover the likeness so that the King might not perceive it ; but it was hopeless : the King stood on tiptoe and looked over his shoulder .
And when he saw the picture of the maid , so beautiful and glittering with gold and precious stones , he fell swooning to the ground .
Trusty John lifted him up , carried him to bed , and thought sorrowfully : `` The curse has come upon us ; gracious heaven !
what will be the end of it all ? ''
Then he poured wine down his throat till he came to himself again .
The first words he spoke were : `` Oh !
who is the original of the beautiful picture ? ''
`` She is the Princess of the Golden Roof , '' answered Trusty John .
Then the King continued : `` My love for her is so great that if all the leaves on the trees had tongues they could not express it ; my very life depends on my winning her .
You are my most trusty John : you must stand by me . ''
The faithful servant pondered long how they were to set about the matter , for it was said to be difficult even to get into the presence of the Princess .
At length he hit upon a plan , and spoke to the King : `` All the things she has about her -- tables , chairs , dishes , goblets , bowls , and all her household furniture -- are made of gold .
You have in your treasure five tons of gold ; let the goldsmiths of your kingdom manufacture them into all manner of vases and vessels , into all sorts of birds and game and wonderful beasts ; that will please her .
We shall go to her with them and try our luck . ''
The King summoned all his goldsmiths , and they had to work hard day and night , till at length the most magnificent things were completed .
When a ship had been laden with them the faithful John disguised himself as a merchant , and the King had to do the same , so that they should be quite unrecognizable .
And so they crossed the seas and journeyed till they reached the town where the Princess of the Golden Roof dwelt .
Trusty John made the King remain behind on the ship and await his return .
`` Perhaps , '' he said , `` I may bring the Princess back with me , so see that everything is in order ; let the gold ornaments be arranged and the whole ship decorated . ''
Then he took a few of the gold things in his apron , went ashore , and proceeded straight to the palace .
When he came to the courtyard he found a beautiful maiden standing at the well , drawing water with two golden pails .
And as she was about to carry away the glittering water she turned round and saw the stranger , and asked him who he was .
Then he replied : `` I am a merchant , '' and opening his apron , he let her peep in .
`` Oh !
my , '' she cried ; `` what beautiful gold wares ! ''
she set down her pails , and examined one thing after the other .
Then she said : `` The Princess must see this , she has such a fancy for gold things that she will buy up all you have . ''
She took him by the hand and let him into the palace , for she was the lady 's maid .
When the Princess had seen the wares she was quite enchanted , and said : `` They are all so beautifully made that I shall buy everything you have . ''
But Trusty John said : `` I am only the servant of a rich merchant , what I have here is nothing compared to what my master has on his ship ; his merchandise is more artistic and costly than anything that has ever been made in gold before . ''
She desired to have everything brought up to her , but he said : `` There is such a quantity of things that it would take many days to bring them up , and they would take up so many rooms that you would have no space for them in your house . ''
Thus her desire and curiosity were excited to such an extent that at last she said : `` Take me to your ship ; I shall go there myself and view your master 's treasures . ''
Then Trusty John was quite delighted , and brought her to the ship ; and the King , when he beheld her , saw that she was even more beautiful than her picture , and thought every moment that his heart would burst .
She stepped on to the ship , and the King led her inside .
But Trusty John remained behind with the steersman , and ordered the ship to push off .
`` Spread all sail , that we may fly on the ocean like a bird in the air . ''
Meanwhile the King showed the Princess inside all his gold wares , every single bit of it -- dishes , goblets , bowls , the birds and game , and all the wonderful beasts .
Many hours passed thus , and she was so happy that she did not notice that the ship was sailing away .
After she had seen the last thing she thanked the merchant and prepared to go home ; but when she came to the ship 's side she saw that they were on the high seas , far from land , and that the ship was speeding on its way under full canvas .
`` Oh ! ''
she cried in terror , `` I am deceived , carried away and betrayed into the power of a merchant ; I would rather have died ! ''
But the King seized her hand and spake : `` I am no merchant , but a king of as high birth as yourself ; and it was my great love for you that made me carry you off by stratagem .
The first time I saw your likeness I fell to the ground in a swoon . ''
When the Princess of the Golden Roof heard this she was comforted , and her heart went out to him , so that she willingly consented to become his wife .
Now it happened one day , while they were sailing on the high seas , that Trusty John , sitting on the forepart of the ship , fiddling away to himself , observed three ravens in the air flying toward him .
He ceased playing , and listened to what they were saying , for he understood their language .
The one croaked : `` Ah , ha !
so he 's bringing the Princess of the Golden Roof home . ''
`` Yes , '' answered the second , `` but he 's not got her yet . ''
`` Yes , he has , '' spake the third , `` for she 's sitting beside him on the ship . ''
Then number one began again and cried : `` That 'll not help him !
When they reach the land a chestnut horse will dash forward to greet them : the King will wish to mount it , and if he does it will gallop away with him , and disappear into the air , and he will never see his bride again . ''
`` Is there no escape for him ? ''
asked number two .
`` Oh !
yes , if someone else mounts quickly and shoots the horse dead with the pistol that is sticking in the holster , then the young King is saved .
But who 's to do that ?
And anyone who knows it and tells him will be turned into stone from his feet to his knees . ''
Then spake number two : `` I know more than that : even if the horse is slain , the young King will still not keep his bride : when they enter the palace together they will find a ready-made wedding shirt in a cupboard , which looks as though it were woven of gold and silver , but is really made of nothing but sulphur and tar : when the King puts it on it will burn him to his marrow and bones . ''
Number three asked : `` Is there no way of escape , then ? ''
`` Oh !
yes , '' answered number two : `` If someone seizes the shirt with gloved hands and throws it into the fire , and lets it burn , then the young King is saved .
But what 's the good ?
Anyone knowing this and telling it will have half his body turned into stone , from his knees to his heart . ''
Then number three spake : `` I know yet more : though the bridal shirt too be burnt , the King has n't even then secured his bride : when the dance is held after the wedding , and the young Queen is dancing , she will suddenly grow deadly white , and drop down like one dead , and unless some one lifts her up and draws three drops of blood from her right side , and spits them out again , she will die .
But if anyone who knows this betrays it , he will be turned into stone from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet . ''
When the ravens had thus conversed they fled onward , but Trusty John had taken it all in , and was sad and depressed from that time forward ; for if he were silent to his master concerning what he had heard , he would involve him in misfortune ; but if he took him into his confidence , then he himself would forfeit his life .
At last he said : `` I will stand by my master , though it should be my ruin . ''
Now when they drew near the land it came to pass just as the ravens had predicted , and a splendid chestnut horse bounded forward .
`` Capital ! ''
said the King ; `` this animal shall carry me to my palace , '' and was about to mount , but Trusty John was too sharp for him , and , springing up quickly , seized the pistol out of the holster and shot the horse dead .
Then the other servants of the King , who at no time looked favorably on Trusty John , cried out : `` What a sin to kill the beautiful beast that was to bear the King to his palace ! ''
But the King spake : `` Silence !
let him alone ; he is ever my most trusty John .
Who knows for what good end he may have done this thing ? ''
So they went on their way and entered the palace , and there in the hall stood a cupboard in which lay the ready-made bridal shirt , looking for all the world as though it were made of gold and silver .
The young King went toward it and was about to take hold of it , but Trusty John , pushing him aside , seized it with his gloved hands , threw it hastily into the fire , and let it burn The other servants commenced grumbling again , and said : `` See , he 's actually burning the King 's bridal shirt . ''
But the young King spoke : `` Who knows for what good purpose he does it ?
Let him alone , he is my most trusty John . ''
Then the wedding was celebrated , the dance began , and the bride joined in , but Trusty John watched her countenance carefully .
Of a sudden she grew deadly white , and fell to the ground as if she were dead .
He at once sprang hastily toward her , lifted her up , and bore her to a room , where he laid her down , and kneeling beside her he drew three drops of blood from her right side , and spat them out .
She soon breathed again and came to herself ; but the young King had watched the proceeding , and not knowing why Trusty John had acted as he did , he flew into a passion , and cried : `` Throw him into prison . ''
On the following morning sentence was passed on Trusty John , and he was condemned to be hanged .
As he stood on the gallows he said : `` Every one doomed to death has the right to speak once before he dies ; and I too have that privilege ? ''
`` Yes , '' said the King , `` it shall be granted to you . ''
So Trusty John spoke : `` I am unjustly condemned , for I have always been faithful to you '' ; and he proceeded to relate how he had heard the ravens ' conversation on the sea , and how he had to do all he did in order to save his master .
Then the King cried : `` Oh !
my most trusty John , pardon !
pardon !
Take him down . ''
But as he uttered the last word Trusty John had fallen lifeless to the ground , and was a stone .
The King and Queen were in despair , and the King spake : `` Ah !
how ill have I rewarded such great fidelity ! ''
and made them lift up the stone image and place it in his bedroom near his bed .
As often as he looked at it he wept and said : `` Oh !
if I could only restore you to life , my most trusty John ! ''
After a time the Queen gave birth to twins , two small sons , who throve and grew , and were a constant joy to her .
One day when the Queen was at church , and the two children sat and played with their father , he gazed again full of grief on the stone statue , and sighing , wailed : `` Oh , if I could only restore you to life , my most trusty John ! ''
Suddenly the stone began to speak , and said : `` Yes , you can restore me to life again if you are prepared to sacrifice what you hold most dear . ''
And the King cried out : `` All I have in the world will I give up for your sake . ''
The stone continued : `` If you cut off with your own hand the heads of your two children , and smear me with their blood , I shall come back to life . ''
The King was aghast when he heard that he had himself to put his children to death ; but when he thought of Trusty John 's fidelity , and how he had even died for him , he drew his sword , and with his own hand cut the heads off his children .
And when he had smeared the stone with their blood , life came back , and Trusty John stood once more safe and sound before him .
He spake to the King : `` Your loyalty shall be rewarded , '' and taking up the heads of the children , he placed them on their bodies , smeared the wounds with their blood , and in a minute they were all right again and jumping about as if nothing had happened .
Then the King was full of joy , and when he saw the Queen coming , he hid Trusty John and the two children in a big cupboard .
As she entered he said to her : `` Did you pray in church ? ''
`` Yes , '' she answered , `` but my thoughts dwelt constantly on Trusty John , and of what he has suffered for us . ''
Then he spake : `` Dear wife , we can restore him to life , but the price asked is our two little sons ; we must sacrifice them . ''
The Queen grew white and her heart sank , but she replied : `` We owe it to him on account of his great fidelity . ''
Then he rejoiced that she was of the same mind as he had been , and going forward he opened the cupboard , and fetched the two children and Trusty John out , saying : `` God be praised !
Trusty John is free once more , and we have our two small sons again . ''
Then he related to her all that had passed , and they lived together happily ever afterward .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Grimm .
THE BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR One summer 's day a little tailor sat on his table by the window in the best of spirits , and sewed for dear life .
As he was sitting thus a peasant woman came down the street , calling out : `` Good jam to sell , good jam to sell . ''
This sounded sweetly in the tailor 's ears ; he put his frail little head out of the window , and shouted : `` up here , my good woman , and you 'll find a willing customer . ''
The woman climbed up the three flights of stairs with her heavy basket to the tailor 's room , and he made her spread out all the pots in a row before him .
He examined them all , lifted them up and smelled them , and said at last : `` This jam seems good , weigh me four ounces of it , my good woman ; and even if it 's a quarter of a pound I wo n't stick at it . ''
The woman , who had hoped to find a good market , gave him what he wanted , but went away grumbling wrathfully .
`` Now heaven shall bless this jam for my use , '' cried the little tailor , `` and it shall sustain and strengthen me . ''
He fetched some bread out of a cupboard , cut a round off the loaf , and spread the jam on it .
`` That wo n't taste amiss , '' he said ; `` but I 'll finish that waistcoat first before I take a bite . ''
He placed the bread beside him , went on sewing , and out of the lightness of his heart kept on making his stitches bigger and bigger .
In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam rose to the ceiling , where heaps of flies were sitting , and attracted them to such an extent that they swarmed on to it in masses .
`` Ha !
who invited you ? ''
said the tailor , and chased the unwelcome guests away .
But the flies , who did n't understand English , refused to let themselves be warned off , and returned again in even greater numbers .
At last the little tailor , losing all patience , reached out of his chimney corner for a duster , and exclaiming : `` Wait , and I 'll give it to you , '' he beat them mercilessly with it .
When he left off he counted the slain , and no fewer than seven lay dead before him with outstretched legs .
`` What a desperate fellow I am ! ''
said he , and was filled with admiration at his own courage .
`` The whole town must know about this '' ; and in great haste the little tailor cut out a girdle , hemmed it , and embroidered on it in big letters , `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` What did I say , the town ?
no , the whole world shall hear of it , '' he said ; and his heart beat for joy as a lamb wags his tail .
The tailor strapped the girdle round his waist and set out into the wide world , for he considered his workroom too small a field for his prowess .
Before he set forth he looked round about him , to see if there was anything in the house he could take with him on his journey ; but he found nothing except an old cheese , which he took possession of .
In front of the house he observed a bird that had been caught in some bushes , and this he put into his wallet beside the cheese .
Then he went on his way merrily , and being light and agile he never felt tired .
His way led up a hill , on the top of which sat a powerful giant , who was calmly surveying the landscape .
The little tailor went up to him , and greeting him cheerfully said : `` Good-day , friend ; there you sit at your ease viewing the whole wide world .
I 'm just on my way there .
What do you say to accompanying me ? ''
The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor , and said : `` What a poor wretched little creature you are ! ''
`` That 's a good joke , '' answered the little tailor , and unbuttoning his coat he showed the giant the girdle .
`` There now , you can read what sort of a fellow I am . ''
The giant read : `` Seven at a blow '' ; and thinking they were human beings the tailor had slain , he conceived a certain respect for the little man .
But first he thought he 'd test him , so taking up a stone in his hand , he squeezed it till some drops of water ran out .
`` Now you do the same , '' said the giant , `` if you really wish to be thought strong . ''
`` Is that all ? ''
said the little tailor ; `` that 's child 's play to me , '' so he dived into his wallet , brought out the cheese , and pressed it till the whey ran out .
`` My squeeze was in sooth better than yours , '' said he .
The giant did n't know what to say , for he could n't have believed it of the little fellow .
To prove him again , the giant lifted a stone and threw it so high that the eye could hardly follow it .
`` Now , my little pigmy , let me see you do that . ''
`` Well thrown , '' said the tailor ; `` but , after all , your stone fell to the ground ; I 'll throw one that wo n't come down at all . ''
He dived into his wallet again , and grasping the bird in his hand , he threw it up into the air .
The bird , enchanted to be free , soared up into the sky , and flew away never to return .
`` Well , what do you think of that little piece of business , friend ? ''
asked the tailor .
`` You can certainly throw , '' said the giant ; `` but now let 's see if you can carry a proper weight . ''
With these words he led the tailor to a huge oak tree which had been felled to the ground , and said : `` If you are strong enough , help me to carry the tree out of the wood . ''
`` Most certainly , '' said the little tailor : `` just you take the trunk on your shoulder ; I 'll bear the top and branches , which is certainly the heaviest part . ''
The giant laid the trunk on his shoulder , but the tailor sat at his ease among the branches ; and the giant , who could n't see what was going on behind him , had to carry the whole tree , and the little tailor into the bargain .
There he sat behind in the best of spirits , lustily whistling a tune , as if carrying the tree were mere sport .
The giant , after dragging the heavy weight for some time , could get on no further , and shouted out : `` Hi !
I must let the tree fall . ''
The tailor sprang nimbly down , seized the tree with both hands as if he had carried it the whole way and said to the giant : `` Fancy a big lout like you not being able to carry a tree ! ''
They continued to go on their way together , and as they passed by a cherry tree the giant grasped the top of it , where the ripest fruit hung , gave the branches into the tailor 's hand , and bade him eat .
But the little tailor was far too weak to hold the tree down , and when the giant let go the tree swung back into the air , bearing the little tailor with it .
When he had fallen to the ground again without hurting himself , the giant said : `` What !
do you mean to tell me you have n't the strength to hold down a feeble twig ? ''
`` It was n't strength that was wanting , '' replied the tailor ; `` do you think that would have been anything for a man who has killed seven at a blow ?
I jumped over the tree because the huntsmen are shooting among the branches near us .
Do you do the like if you dare . ''
The giant made an attempt , but could n't get over the tree , and stuck fast in the branches , so that here too the little tailor had the better of him .
`` Well , you 're a fine fellow , after all , '' said the giant ; `` come and spend the night with us in our cave . ''
The little tailor willingly consented to do this , and following his friend they went on till they reached a cave where several other giants were sitting round a fire , each holding a roast sheep in his hand , of which he was eating .
The little tailor looked about him , and thought : `` Yes , there 's certainly more room to turn round in here than in my workshop . ''
The giant showed him a bed and bade him lie down and have a good sleep .
But the bed was too big for the little tailor , so he did n't get into it , but crept away into the corner .
At midnight , when the giant thought the little tailor was fast asleep , he rose up , and taking his big iron walking-stick , he broke the bed in two with a blow , and thought he had made an end of the little grasshopper .
At early dawn the giants went off to the wood , and quite forgot about the little tailor , till all of a sudden they met him trudging along in the most cheerful manner .
The giants were terrified at the apparition , and , fearful lest he should slay them , they all took to their heels as fast as they could .
The little tailor continued to follow his nose , and after he had wandered about for a long time he came to the courtyard of a royal palace , and feeling tired he lay down on the grass and fell asleep .
While he lay there the people came , and looking him all over read on his girdle : `` Seven at a blow . ''
`` Oh ! ''
they said , `` what can this great hero of a hundred fights want in our peaceful land ?
He must indeed be a mighty man of valor . ''
They went and told the King about him , and said what a weighty and useful man he 'd be in time of war , and that it would be well to secure him at any price .
This counsel pleased the King , and he sent one of his courtiers down to the little tailor , to offer him , when he awoke , a commission in their army .
The messenger remained standing by the sleeper , and waited till he stretched his limbs and opened his eyes , when he tendered his proposal .
`` That 's the very thing I came here for , '' he answered ; `` I am quite ready to enter the King 's service . ''
So he was received with all honor , and given a special house of his own to live in .
But the other officers resented the success of the little tailor , and wished him a thousand miles away .
`` What 's to come of it all ? ''
they asked each other ; `` if we quarrel with him , he 'll let out at us , and at every blow seven will fall .
There 'll soon be an end of us . ''
So they resolved to go in a body to the King , and all to send in their papers .
`` We are not made , '' they said , `` to hold out against a man who kills seven at a blow . ''
The King was grieved at the thought of losing all his faithful servants for the sake of one man , and he wished heartily that he had never set eyes on him , or that he could get rid of him .
But he did n't dare to send him away , for he feared he might kill him along with his people , and place himself on the throne .
He pondered long and deeply over the matter , and finally came to a conclusion .
He sent to the tailor and told him that , seeing what a great and warlike hero he was , he was about to make him an offer .
In a certain wood of his kingdom there dwelled two giants who did much harm ; by the way they robbed , murdered , burned , and plundered everything about them ; `` no one could approach them without endangering his life .
But if he could overcome and kill these two giants he should have his only daughter for a wife , and half his kingdom into the bargain ; he might have a hundred horsemen , too , to back him up . ''
`` That 's the very thing for a man like me , '' thought the little tailor ; `` one does n't get the offer of a beautiful princess and half a kingdom every day . ''
`` Done with you , '' he answered ; `` I 'll soon put an end to the giants .
But I have n't the smallest need of your hundred horsemen ; a fellow who can slay seven men at a blow need not be afraid of two . ''
The little tailor set out , and the hundred horsemen followed him .
When he came to the outskirts of the wood he said to his followers : `` You wait here , I 'll manage the giants by myself '' ; and he went on into the wood , casting his sharp little eyes right and left about him .
After a while he spied the two giants lying asleep under a tree , and snoring till the very boughs bent with the breeze .
The little tailor lost no time in filling his wallet with stones , and then climbed up the tree under which they lay .
When he got to about the middle of it he slipped along a branch till he sat just above the sleepers , when he threw down one stone after the other on the nearest giant .
The giant felt nothing for a long time , but at last he woke up , and pinching his companion said : `` What did you strike me for ? ''
`` I did n't strike you , '' said the other , `` you must be dreaming . ''
They both lay down to sleep again , and the tailor threw down a stone on the second giant , who sprang up and cried : `` What 's that for ?
Why did you throw something at me ? ''
`` I did n't throw anything , '' growled the first one .
They wrangled on for a time , till , as both were tired , they made up the matter and fell asleep again .
The little tailor began his game once more , and flung the largest stone he could find in his wallet with all his force , and hit the first giant on the chest .
`` This is too much of a good thing ! ''
he yelled , and springing up like a madman , he knocked his companion against the tree till he trembled .
He gave , however , as good as he got , and they became so enraged that they tore up trees and beat each other with them , till they both fell dead at once on the ground .
Then the little tailor jumped down .
`` It 's a mercy , '' he said , `` that they did n't root up the tree on which I was perched , or I should have had to jump like a squirrel on to another , which , nimble though I am , would have been no easy job . ''
He drew his sword and gave each of the giants a very fine thrust or two on the breast , and then went to the horsemen and said : `` The deed is done , I 've put an end to the two of them ; but I assure you it has been no easy matter , for they even tore up trees in their struggle to defend themselves ; but all that 's of no use against one who slays seven men at a blow . ''
`` Were n't you wounded ? ''
asked the horsemen .
`` No fear , '' answered the tailor ; `` they have n't touched a hair of my head . ''
But the horsemen would n't believe him till they rode into the wood and found the giants weltering in their blood , and the trees lying around , torn up by the roots .
The little tailor now demanded the promised reward from the King , but he repented his promise , and pondered once more how he could rid himself of the hero .
`` Before you obtain the hand of my daughter and half my kingdom , '' he said to him , `` you must do another deed of valor .
A unicorn is running about loose in the wood , and doing much mischief ; you must first catch it . ''
`` I 'm even less afraid of one unicorn than of two giants ; seven at a blow , that 's my motto . ''
He took a piece of cord and an axe with him , went out to the wood , and again told the men who had been sent with him to remain outside .
He had n't to search long , for the unicorn soon passed by , and , on perceiving the tailor , dashed straight at him as though it were going to spike him on the spot .
`` Gently , gently , '' said he , `` not so fast , my friend '' ; and standing still he waited till the beast was quite near , when he sprang lightly behind a tree ; the unicorn ran with all its force against the tree , and rammed its horn so firmly into the trunk that it had no strength left to pull it out again , and was thus successfully captured .
`` Now I 've caught my bird , '' said the tailor , and he came out from behind the tree , placed the cord round its neck first , then struck the horn out of the tree with his axe , and when everything was in order led the beast before the King .
Still the King did n't want to give him the promised reward and made a third demand .
The tailor was to catch a wild boar for him that did a great deal of harm in the wood ; and he might have the huntsmen to help him .
`` Willingly , '' said the tailor ; `` that 's mere child 's play . ''
But he did n't take the huntsmen into the wood with him , and they were well enough pleased to remain behind , for the wild boar had often received them in a manner which did not make them desire its further acquaintance .
As soon as the boar perceived the tailor it ran at him with foaming mouth and gleaming teeth , and tried to knock him down ; but our alert little friend ran into a chapel that stood near , and got out of the window again with a jump .
The boar pursued him into the church , but the tailor skipped round to the door , and closed it securely .
So the raging beast was caught , for it was far too heavy and unwieldy to spring out of the window .
The little tailor summoned the huntsmen together , that they might see the prisoner with their own eyes .
Then the hero betook himself to the King , who was obliged now , whether he liked it or not , to keep his promise , and hand him over his daughter and half his kingdom .
Had he known that no hero-warrior , but only a little tailor stood before him , it would have gone even more to his heart .
So the wedding was celebrated with much splendor and little joy , and the tailor became a king .
After a time the Queen heard her husband saying one night in his sleep : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch these trousers , or I 'll box your ears . ''
Thus she learned in what rank the young gentleman had been born , and next day she poured forth her woes to her father , and begged him to help her to get rid of a husband who was nothing more nor less than a tailor .
The King comforted her , and said : `` Leave your bedroom door open to-night , my servants shall stand outside , and when your husband is fast asleep they shall enter , bind him fast , and carry him on to a ship , which shall sail away out into the wide ocean . ''
The Queen was well satisfied with the idea , but the armor-bearer , who had overheard everything , being much attached to his young master , went straight to him and revealed the whole plot .
`` I 'll soon put a stop to the business , '' said the tailor .
That night he and his wife went to bed at the usual time ; and when she thought he had fallen asleep she got up , opened the door , and then lay down again .
The little tailor , who had only pretended to be asleep , began to call out in a clear voice : `` My lad , make that waistcoat and patch those trousers , or I 'll box your ears .
I have killed seven at a blow , slain two giants , led a unicorn captive , and caught a wild boar , then why should I be afraid of those men standing outside my door ? ''
The men , when they heard the tailor saying these words , were so terrified that they fled as if pursued by a wild army , and did n't dare go near him again .
So the little tailor was and remained a king all the days of his life .
A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT CHAPTER I My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire , and I was the third of four sons .
He sent me to Cambridge at fourteen years old , and after studying there three years I was bound apprentice to Mr. Bates , a famous surgeon in London .
There , as my father now and then sent me small sums of money , I spent them in learning navigation , and other arts useful to those who travel , as I always believed it would be some time or other my fortune to do .
Three years after my leaving him my good master , Mr. Bates , recommended me as ship 's surgeon to the `` Swallow , '' on which I voyaged three years .
When I came back I settled in London , and , having taken part of a small house , I married Miss Mary Burton , daughter of Mr. Edmund Burton , hosier .
But my good master Bates died two years after ; and as I had few friends my business began to fail , and I determined to go again to sea .
After several voyages , I accepted an offer from Captain W. Pritchard , master of the `` Antelope , '' who was making a voyage to the South Sea .
We set sail from Bristol , May 4 , 1699 ; and our voyage at first was very prosperous .
But in our passage to the East Indies we were driven by a violent storm to the north-west of Van Diemen 's Land .
Twelve of our crew died from hard labor and bad food , and the rest were in a very weak condition .
On the 5th of November , the weather being very hazy , the seamen spied a rock within 120 yards of the ship ; but the wind was so strong that we were driven straight upon it , and immediately split .
Six of the crew , of whom I was one , letting down the boat , got clear of the ship , and we rowed about three leagues , till we could work no longer .
We therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves ; and in about half an hour the boat was upset by a sudden squall .
What became of my companions in the boat , or those who escaped on the rock or were left in the vessel , I can not tell ; but I conclude they were all lost .
For my part , I swam as fortune directed me , and was pushed forward by wind and tide ; but when I was able to struggle no longer I found myself within my depth .
By this time the storm was much abated .
I reached the shore at last , about eight o'clock in the evening , and advanced nearly half a mile inland , but could not discover any sign of inhabitants .
I was extremely tired , and with the heat of the weather I found myself much inclined to sleep .
I lay down on the grass , which was very short and soft , and slept sounder than ever I did in my life for about nine hours .
When I woke , it was just daylight .
I attempted to rise , but could not ; for as I happened to be lying on my back , I found my arms and legs were fastened on each side to the ground ; and my hair , which was long and thick , tied down in the same manner .
I could only look upward .
The sun began to grow hot , and the light hurt my eyes .
I heard a confused noise about me , but could see nothing except the sky .
In a little time I felt something alive and moving on my left leg , which , advancing gently over my breast , came almost up to my chin , when , bending my eyes downward , I perceived it to be a human creature , not six inches high , with a bow and arrow in his hands , and a quiver at his back .
In the meantime I felt at least forty more following the first .
I was in the utmost astonishment , and roared so loud that they all ran back in a fright ; and some of them were hurt with the falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the ground .
However , they soon returned , and one of them , who ventured so far as to get a full sight of my face , lifted up his hands in admiration .
I lay all this while in great uneasiness ; but at length , struggling to get loose , I succeeded in breaking the strings that fastened my left arm to the ground ; and at the same time , with a violent pull that gave me extreme pain , I a little loosened the strings that tied down my hair , so that I was just able to turn my head about two inches .
But the creatures ran off a second time before I could seize them , whereupon there was a great shout , and in an instant I felt above a hundred arrows discharged on my left hand , which pricked me like so many needles .
Moreover , they shot another flight into the air , of which some fell on my face , which I immediately covered with my left hand .
When this shower of arrows was over I groaned with grief and pain , and then , striving again to get loose , they discharged another flight of arrows larger than the first , and some of them tried to stab me with their spears ; but by good luck I had on a leather jacket , which they could not pierce .
By this time I thought it most prudent to lie still till night , when , my left hand being already loose , I could easily free myself ; and as for the inhabitants , I thought I might be a match for the greatest army they could bring against me if they were all of the same size as him I saw .
When the people observed that I was quiet they discharged no more arrows , but by the noise I heard I knew that their number was increased ; and about four yards from me , for more than an hour , there was a knocking , like people at work .
Then , turning my head that way as well as the pegs and strings would let me , I saw a stage set up , about a foot and a half from the ground , with two or three ladders to mount it .
From this , one of them , who seemed to be a person of quality , made me a long speech , of which I could not understand a word , though I could tell from his manner that he sometimes threatened me , and sometimes spoke with pity and kindness .
I answered in few words , but in the most submissive manner ; and , being almost famished with hunger , I could not help showing my impatience by putting my finger frequently to my mouth , to signify that I wanted food .
He understood me very well , and , descending from the stage , commanded that several ladders should be set against my sides , on which more than a hundred of the inhabitants mounted , and walked toward my mouth with baskets full of food , which had been sent by the King 's orders when he first received tidings of me .
There were legs and shoulders like mutton but smaller than the wings of a lark .
I ate them two or three at a mouthful , and took three loaves at a time .
They supplied me as fast as they could , with a thousand marks of wonder at my appetite .
I then made a sign that I wanted something to drink .
They guessed that a small quantity would not suffice me , and , being a most ingenious people , they slung up one of their largest hogsheads , then rolled it toward my hand , and beat out the top .
I drank it off at a draught , which I might well do , for it did not hold half a pint .
They brought me a second hogshead , which I drank , and made signs for more ; but they had none to give me .
However , I could not wonder enough at the daring of these tiny mortals , who ventured to mount and walk upon my body , while one of my hands was free , without trembling at the very sight of so huge a creature as I must have seemed to them .
After some time there appeared before me a person of high rank from his Imperial Majesty .
His Excellency , having mounted my right leg , advanced to my face , with about a dozen of his retinue , and spoke about ten minutes , often pointing forward , which , as I afterward found , was toward the capital city , about half a mile distant , whither it was commanded by his Majesty that I should be conveyed .
I made a sign with my hand that was loose , putting it to the other -LRB- but over his Excellency 's head , for fear of hurting him or his train -RRB- , to show that I desired my liberty .
He seemed to understand me well enough , for he shook his head , though he made other signs to let me know that I should have meat and drink enough , and very good treatment .
Then I once more thought of attempting to escape ; but when I felt the smart of their arrows on my face and hands , which were all in blisters and observed likewise that the number of my enemies increased , I gave tokens to let them know that they might do with me what they pleased .
Then they daubed my face and hands with a sweet-smelling ointment , which in a few minutes removed all the smarts of the arrows .
The relief from pain and hunger made me drowsy , and presently I fell asleep .
I slept about eight hours , as I was told afterward ; and it was no wonder , for the physicians , by the Emperor 's orders , had mingled a sleeping draught in the hogsheads of wine .
It seems that , when I was discovered sleeping on the ground after my landing , the Emperor had early notice of it , and determined that I should be tied in the manner I have related -LRB- which was done in the night , while I slept -RRB- , that plenty of meat and drink should be sent me , and a machine prepared to carry me to the capital city .
Five hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately set to work to prepare the engine .
It was a frame of wood , raised three inches from the ground , about seven feet long and four wide , moving upon twenty-two wheels .
But the difficulty was to place me on it .
Eighty poles were erected for this purpose , and very strong cords fastened to bandages which the workmen had tied round my neck , hands , body , and legs .
Nine hundred of the strongest men were employed to draw up these cords by pulleys fastened on the poles , and in less than three hours I was raised and slung into the engine , and there tied fast .
Fifteen hundred of the Emperor 's largest horses , each about four inches and a half high , were then employed to draw me toward the capital .
But while all this was done I still lay in a deep sleep , and I did not wake till four hours after we began our journey .
The Emperor and all his Court came out to meet us when we reached the capital ; but his great officials would not suffer his Majesty to risk his person by mounting on my body .
Where the carriage stopped there stood an ancient temple , supposed to be the largest in the whole kingdom , and here it was determined that I should lodge .
Near the great gate , through which I could easily creep , they fixed ninety-one chains , like those which hang to a lady 's watch , which were locked to my left leg with thirty-six padlocks ; and when the workmen found it was impossible for me to break loose , they cut all the strings that bound me .
Then I rose up , feeling as melancholy as ever I did in my life .
But the noise and astonishment of the people on seeing me rise and walk were inexpressible .
The chains that held my left leg were about two yards long , and gave me not only freedom to walk backward and forward in a semicircle , but to creep in and lie at full length inside the temple .
The Emperor , advancing toward me from among his courtiers , all most magnificently clad , surveyed me with great admiration , but kept beyond the length of my chain .
He was taller by about the breadth of my nail than any of his Court , which alone was enough to strike awe into the beholders , and graceful and majestic .
The better to behold him , I lay down on my side , so that my face was level with his , and he stood three yards off .
However , I have had him since many times in my hand , and therefore can not be deceived .
His dress was very simple ; but he wore a light helmet of gold , adorned with jewels and a plume .
He held his sword drawn in his hand , to defend himself if I should break loose ; it was almost three inches long , and the hilt was of gold , enriched with diamonds .
His voice was shrill , but very clear .
His Imperial Majesty spoke often to me , and I answered ; but neither of us could understand a word .
CHAPTER II After about two hours the Court retired , and I was left with a strong guard to keep away the crowd , some of whom had had the impudence to shoot their arrows at me as I sat by the door of my house .
But the colonel ordered six of them to be seized and delivered bound into my hands .
I put five of them into my coat pocket ; and as to the sixth , I made a face as if I would eat him alive .
The poor man screamed terribly , and the colonel and his officers were much distressed , especially when they saw me take out my penknife .
But I soon set them at ease , for , cutting the strings he was bound with , I put him gently on the ground , and away he ran .
I treated the rest in the same manner , taking them one by one out of my pocket ; and I saw that both the soldiers and people were delighted at this mark of my kindness .
Toward night I got with some difficulty into my house , where I lay on the ground , as I had to do for a fortnight , till a bed was prepared for me out of six hundred beds of the ordinary measure .
Six hundred servants were appointed me , and three hundred tailors made me a suit of clothes .
Moreover , six of his Majesty 's greatest scholars were employed to teach me their language , so that soon I was able to converse after a fashion with the Emperor , who often honored me with his visits .
The first words I learned were to desire that he would please to give me my liberty , which I every day repeated on my knees ; but he answered that this must be a work of time , and that first I must swear a peace with him and his kingdom .
He told me also that by the laws of the nation I must be searched by two of his officers , and that as this could not be done without my help , he trusted them in my hands , and whatever they took from me should be returned when I left the country .
I took up the two officers , and put them into my coat pockets .
These gentlemen , having pen , ink , and paper about them , made an exact list of everything they saw , which I afterward translated into English , and which ran as follows : `` In the right coat pocket of the great Man-Mountain we found only one great piece of coarse cloth , large enough to cover the carpet of your Majesty 's chief room of state .
In the left pocket we saw a huge silver chest , with a silver cover , which we could not lift .
We desired that it should be opened , and one of us stepping into it found himself up to the mid-leg in a sort of dust , some of which flying into our faces sent us both into a fit of sneezing .
In his right waistcoat pocket we found a number of white thin substances , folded one over another , about the size of three men , tied with a strong cable , and marked with black figures , which we humbly conceive to be writings .
In the left there was a sort of engine , from the back of which extended twenty long poles , with which , we conjecture , the Man-Mountain combs his head .
In the smaller pocket on the right side were several round flat pieces of white and red metal , of different sizes .
Some of the white , which appeared to be silver , were so large and heavy that my comrade and I could hardly lift them .
From another pocket hung a huge silver chain , with a wonderful kind of engine fastened to it , a globe half silver and half of some transparent metal ; for on the transparent side we saw certain strange figures , and thought we could touch them till we found our fingers stopped by the shining substance .
This engine made an incessant noise , like a water-mill , and we conjecture it is either some unknown animal , or the god he worships , but probably the latter , for he told us that he seldom did anything without consulting it .
`` This is a list of what we found about the body of the Man-Mountain , who treated us with great civility . ''
I had one private pocket which escaped their search , containing a pair of spectacles and a small spy-glass , which , being of no consequence to the Emperor , I did not think myself bound in honor to discover .
CHAPTER III My gentleness and good behavior gained so far on the Emperor and his Court , and , indeed , on the people in general , that I began to have hopes of getting my liberty in a short time .
The natives came by degrees to be less fearful of danger from me .
I would sometimes lie down and let five or six of them dance on my hand ; and at last the boys and girls ventured to come and play at hide-and-seek in my hair .
The horses of the army and of the royal stables were no longer shy , having been daily led before me ; and one of the Emperor 's huntsmen , on a large courser , took my foot , shoe and all , which was indeed a prodigious leap .
I amused the Emperor one day in a very extraordinary manner .
I took nine sticks , and fixed them firmly in the ground in a square .
Then I took four other sticks , and tied them parallel at each corner , about two feet from the ground .
I fastened my handkerchief to the nine sticks that stood erect , and extended it on all sides till it was as tight as the top of a drum ; and I desired the Emperor to let a troop of his best horse , twenty-four in number , come and exercise upon this plain .
His majesty approved of the proposal , and I took them up one by one , with the proper officers to exercise them .
As soon as they got into order they divided into two parties , discharged blunt arrows , drew their swords , fled and pursued , and , in short , showed the best military discipline I ever beheld .
The parallel sticks secured them and their horses from falling off the stage , and the Emperor was so much delighted that he ordered this entertainment to be repeated several days , and persuaded the Empress herself to let me hold her in her chair within two yards of the stage , whence she could view the whole performance .
Fortunately no accident happened , only once a fiery horse , pawing with his hoof , struck a hole in my handkerchief , and overthrew his rider and himself .
But I immediately relieved them both , and covering the hole with one hand , I set down the troop with the other as I had taken them up .
The horse that fell was strained in the shoulder ; but the rider was not hurt , and I repaired my handkerchief as well as I could .
However , I would not trust to the strength of it any more in such dangerous enterprises .
I had sent so many petitions for my liberty that his Majesty at length mentioned the matter in a full council , where it was opposed by none except Skyresh Bolgolam , admiral of the realm , who was pleased without any provocation to be my mortal enemy .
However , he agreed at length , though he succeeded in himself drawing up the conditions on which I should be set free .
After they were read I was requested to swear to perform them in the method prescribed by their laws , which was to hold my right foot in my left hand , and to place the middle finger of my right hand on the crown of my head , and my thumb on the top of my right ear .
But I have made a translation of the conditions , which I here offer to the public : `` Golbaste Mamarem Evlame Gurdile Shefin Mully Ully Gue , Most Mighty Emperor of Lilliput , delight and terror of the universe , whose dominions extend to the ends of the globe , monarch of all monarchs , taller than the sons of men , whose feet press down to the center , and whose head strikes against the sun , at whose nod the princes of the earth shake their knees , pleasant as the spring , comfortable as the summer , fruitful as autumn , dreadful as winter : His Most Sublime Majesty proposeth to the Man-Mountain , lately arrived at our celestial dominions , the following articles , which by a solemn oath he shall be obliged to perform : `` First .
The Man-Mountain shall not depart from our dominions without our license under the great seal .
`` Second .
He shall not presume to come into our metropolis without our express order , at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours ' warning to keep within doors .
`` Third .
The said Man-Mountain shall confine his walks to our principal high roads , and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or field of corn .
`` Fourth .
As he walks the said roads he shall take the utmost care not to trample upon the bodies of any of our loving subjects , their horses or carriages , nor take any of our subjects into his hands without their own consent .
`` Fifth .
If an express requires extraordinary speed the Man-Mountain shall be obliged to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a six days ' journey , and return the said messenger -LRB- if so required -RRB- safe to our imperial presence .
`` Sixth .
He shall be our ally against our enemies in the island of Blefuscu , and do his utmost to destroy their fleet , which is now preparing to invade us .
`` Lastly .
Upon his solemn oath to observe all the above articles , the said Man-Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1,724 of our subjects , with free access to our royal person , and other marks of our favor .
Given at our palace at Belfaburac , the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign . ''
I swore to these articles with great cheerfulness , whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked , and I was at full liberty .
One morning , about a fortnight after I had obtained my freedom , Reldresal , the Emperor 's secretary for private affairs , came to my house , attended only by one servant .
He ordered his coach to wait at a distance , and desired that I would give him an hour 's audience .
I offered to lie down that he might the more conveniently reach my ear ; but he chose rather to let me hold him in my hand during our conversation .
He began with compliments on my liberty , but he added that , save for the present state of things at Court , perhaps I might not have obtained it so soon .
`` For , '' he said , `` however flourishing we may seem to foreigners , we are in danger of an invasion from the island of Blefuscu , which is the other great empire of the universe , almost as large and as powerful as this of his Majesty .
For as to what we have heard you say , that there are other kingdoms in the world , inhabited by human creatures as large as yourself , our philosophers are very doubtful , and rather conjecture that you dropped from the moon , or one of the stars , because a hundred mortals of your size would soon destroy all the fruit and cattle of his Majesty 's dominions .
Besides , our histories of six thousand moons make no mention of any other regions than the two mighty empires of Lilliput and Blefuscu , which , as I was going to tell you , are engaged in a most obstinate war , which began in the following manner : It is allowed on all hands that the primitive way of breaking eggs was upon the larger end ; but his present Majesty 's grandfather , while he was a boy , going to eat an egg , and breaking it according to the ancient practice , happened to cut one of his fingers .
Whereupon the Emperor , his father , made a law commanding all his subjects to break the smaller end of their eggs .
The people so highly resented this law that there have been six rebellions raised on that account , wherein one emperor lost his life , and another his crown .
It is calculated that eleven hundred persons have at different times suffered rather than break their eggs at the smaller end .
But these rebels , the Bigendians , have found so much encouragement at the Emperor of Blefuscu 's Court , to which they always fled for refuge , that a bloody war , as I said , has been carried on between the two empires for six-and-thirty moons ; and now the Blefuscudians have equipped a large fleet , and are preparing to descend upon us .
Therefore his Imperial Majesty , placing great confidence in your valor and strength , has commanded me to set the case before you . ''
I desired the secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor , and to let him know that I was ready , at the risk of my life , to defend him against all invaders .
CHAPTER IV It was not long before I communicated to his Majesty the plan I formed for seizing the enemy 's whole fleet .
The Empire of Blefuscu is an island parted from Lilliput only by a channel eight hundred yards wide .
I consulted the most experienced seamen on the depth of the channel , and they told me that in the middle , at high water , it was seventy glumguffs -LRB- about six feet of European measure -RRB- .
I walked toward the coast , where , lying down behind a hillock , I took out my spy-glass , and viewed the enemy 's fleet at anchor -- about fifty men-of-war , and other vessels .
I then came back to my house and gave orders for a great quantity of the strongest cables and bars of iron .
The cable was about as thick as packthread , and the bars of the length and size of a knitting-needle .
I trebled the cable to make it stronger , and for the same reason twisted three of the iron bars together , bending the ends into a hook .
Having thus fixed fifty hooks to as many cables , I went back to the coast , and taking off my coat , shoes , and stockings , walked into the sea in my leather jacket about half an hour before high water .
I waded with what haste I could , swimming in the middle about thirty yards , till I felt ground , and thus arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour .
The enemy was so frightened when they saw me that they leaped out of their ships and swam ashore , where there could not be fewer than thirty thousand .
Then , fastening a hook to the hole at the prow of each ship , I tied all the cords together at the end .
Meanwhile the enemy discharged several thousand arrows , many of which stuck in my hands and face .
My greatest fear was for my eyes , which I should have lost if I had not suddenly thought of the pair of spectacles which had escaped the Emperor 's searchers .
These I took out and fastened upon my nose , and thus armed went on with my work in spite of the arrows , many of which struck against the glasses of my spectacles , but without any other effect than slightly disturbing them .
Then , taking the knot in my hand , I began to pull ; but not a ship would stir , for they were too fast held by their anchors .
Thus the boldest part of my enterprise remained .
Letting go the cord , I resolutely cut with my knife the cables that fastened the anchors , receiving more than two hundred shots in my face and hands .
Then I took up again the knotted end of the cables to which my hooks were tied , and with great ease drew fifty of the enemy 's largest men-of-war after me .
When the Blefuscudians saw the fleet moving in order , and me pulling at the end , they set up a scream of grief and despair that it is impossible to describe .
When I had got out of danger I stopped awhile to pick out the arrows that stuck in my hands and face , and rubbed on some of the same ointment that was given me at my arrival .
I then took off my spectacles , and after waiting about an hour , till the tide was a little fallen , I waded on to the royal port of Lilliput .
The Emperor and his whole Court stood on the shore awaiting me .
They saw the ships move forward in a large half-moon , but could not discern me , who , in the middle of the channel , was under water up to my neck .
The Emperor concluded that I was drowned , and that the enemy 's fleet was approaching in a hostile manner .
But he was soon set at ease , for , the channel growing shallower every step I made , I came in a short time within hearing , and holding up the end of the cable by which the fleet was fastened , I cried in a loud voice : `` Long live the most puissant Emperor of Lilliput ! ''
The Prince received me at my landing with all possible joy , and made me a Nardal on the spot , which is the highest title of honor among them .
His Majesty desired that I would take some opportunity to bring all the rest of his enemy 's ships into his ports , and seemed to think of nothing less than conquering the whole Empire of Blefuscu , and becoming the sole monarch of the world .
But I plainly protested that I would never be the means of bringing a free and brave people into slavery ; and though the wisest of the Ministers were of my opinion , my open refusal was so opposed to his Majesty 's ambition that he could never forgive me .
And from this time a plot began between himself and those of his Ministers who were my enemies , that nearly ended in my utter destruction .
About three weeks after this exploit there arrived an embassy from Blefuscu , with humble offers of peace , which was soon concluded , on terms very advantageous to our Emperor .
There were six ambassadors , with a train of about five hundred persons , all very magnificent .
Having been privately told that I had befriended them , they made me a visit , and paying me many compliments on my valor and generosity , invited me to their kingdom in the Emperor their master 's name .
I asked them to present my most humble respects to the Emperor their master , whose royal person I resolved to attend before I returned to my own country .
Accordingly , the next time I had the honor to see our Emperor I desired his general permission to visit the Blefuscudian monarch .
This he granted me , but in a very cold manner , of which I afterward learned the reason .
When I was just preparing to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu , a distinguished person at Court , to whom I had once done a great service , came to my house very privately at night , and without sending his name desired admission .
I put his lordship into my coat pocket , and , giving orders to a trusty servant to admit no one , I fastened the door , placed my visitor on the table , and sat down by it .
His lordship 's face was full of trouble ; and he asked me to hear him with patience , in a matter that highly concerned my honor and my life .
`` You are aware , '' he said , `` that Skyresh Bolgolam has been your mortal enemy ever since your arrival , and his hatred is increased since your great success against Blefuscu , by which his glory as admiral is obscured .
This lord and others have accused you of treason , and several councils have been called in the most private manner on your account .
Out of gratitude for your favors I procured information of the whole proceedings , venturing my head for your service , and this was the charge against you : `` First , that you , having brought the imperial fleet of Blefuscu into the royal port , were commanded by his Majesty to seize all the other ships , and put to death all the Bigendian exiles , and also all the people of the empire who would not immediately consent to break their eggs at the smaller end .
And that , like a false traitor to his Most Serene Majesty , you excused yourself from the service on pretence of unwillingness to force the consciences and destroy the liberties and lives of an innocent people .
`` Again , when ambassadors arrived from the Court of Blefuscu , like a false traitor , you aided and entertained them , though you knew them to be servants of a prince lately in open war against his Imperial Majesty .
`` Moreover , you are now preparing , contrary to the duty of a faithful subject , to voyage to the Court of Blefuscu .
`` In the debate on this charge , '' my friend continued , `` his Majesty often urged the services you had done him , while the admiral and treasurer insisted that you should be put to a shameful death .
But Reldresal , secretary for private affairs , who has always proved himself your friend suggested that if his Majesty would please to spare your life and only give orders to put out both your eyes , justice might in some measure be satisfied .
At this Bolgolam rose up in fury , wondering how the secretary dared desire to preserve the life of a traitor ; and the treasurer , pointing out the expense of keeping you , also urged your death .
But his Majesty was graciously pleased to say that since the council thought the loss of your eyes too easy a punishment , some other might afterward be inflicted .
And the secretary , humbly desiring to be heard again , said that as to expense your allowance might be gradually lessened , so that , for want of sufficient food you should grow weak and faint , and die in a few months , when his Majesty 's subjects might cut your flesh from your bones and bury it , leaving the skeleton for the admiration of posterity .
`` Thus , through the great friendship of the secretary the affair was arranged .
It was commanded that the plan of starving you by degrees should be kept a secret ; but the sentence of putting out your eyes was entered on the books .
In three days your friend the secretary will come to your house and read the accusation before you , and point out the great mercy of his Majesty , that only condemns you to the loss of your eyes -- which , he does not doubt , you will submit to humbly and gratefully .
Twenty of his Majesty 's surgeons will attend , to see the operation well performed , by discharging very sharp-pointed arrows into the balls of your eyes as you lie on the ground .
`` I leave you , '' said my friend , `` to consider what measures you will take ; and , to escape suspicion , I must immediately return , as secretly as I came . ''
His lordship did so ; and I remained alone , in great perplexity .
At first I was bent on resistance ; for while I had liberty I could easily with stones pelt the metropolis to pieces ; but I soon rejected that idea with horror , remembering the oath I had made to the Emperor , and the favors I had received from him .
At last , having his Majesty 's leave to pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu , I resolved to take this opportunity .
Before the three days had passed I wrote a letter to my friend the secretary telling him of my resolution ; and , without waiting for an answer , went to the coast , and entering the channel , between wading and swimming reached the port of Blefuscu , where the people , who had long expected me , led me to the capital .
His Majesty , with the royal family and great officers of the Court , came out to receive me , and they entertained me in a manner suited to the generosity of so great a prince .
I did not , however , mention my disgrace with the Emperor of Lilliput , since I did not suppose that prince would disclose the secret while I was out of his power .
But in this , it soon appeared , I was deceived .
CHAPTER V Three days after my arrival , walking out of curiosity to the northeast coast of the island , I observed at some distance in the sea something that looked like a boat overturned .
I pulled off my shoes and stockings , and wading two or three hundred yards , I plainly saw it to be a real boat , which I supposed might by some tempest have been driven from a ship .
I returned immediately to the city for help , and after a huge amount of labor I managed to get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu , where a great crowd of people appeared , full of wonder at sight of so prodigious a vessel .
I told the Emperor that my good fortune had thrown this boat in my way to carry me to some place whence I might return to my native country , and begged his orders for materials to fit it up , and leave to depart -- which , after many kindly speeches , he was pleased to grant .
Meanwhile the Emperor of Lilliput , uneasy at my long absence -LRB- but never imagining that I had the least notice of his designs -RRB- , sent a person of rank to inform the Emperor of Blefuscu of my disgrace ; this messenger had orders to represent the great mercy of his master , who was content to punish me with the loss of my eyes , and who expected that his brother of Blefuscu would have me sent back to Lilliput , bound hand and foot , to be punished as a traitor .
The Emperor of Blefuscu answered with many civil excuses .
He said that as for sending me bound , his brother knew it was impossible .
Moreover , though I had taken away his fleet he was grateful to me for many good offices I had done him in making the peace .
But that both their Majesties would soon be made easy ; for I had found a prodigious vessel on the shore , able to carry me on the sea , which he had given orders to fit up ; and he hoped in a few weeks both empires would be free from me .
With this answer the messenger returned to Lilliput ; and I -LRB- though the monarch of Blefuscu secretly offered me his gracious protection if I would continue in his service -RRB- hastened my departure , resolving never more to put confidence in princes .
In about a month I was ready to take leave .
The Emperor of Blefuscu , with the Empress and the royal family , came out of the palace ; and I lay down on my face to kiss their hands , which they graciously gave me .
His Majesty presented me with fifty purses of sprugs -LRB- their greatest gold coin -RRB- and his picture at full length , which I put immediately into one of my gloves , to keep it from being hurt .
Many other ceremonies took place at my departure .
I stored the boat with meat and drink , and took six cows and two bulls alive , with as many ewes and rams , intending to carry them into my own country ; and to feed them on board , I had a good bundle of hay and a bag of corn .
I would gladly have taken a dozen of the natives ; but this was a thing the Emperor would by no means permit , and besides a diligent search into my pockets , his Majesty pledged my honor not to carry away any of his subjects , though with their own consent and desire .
Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able , I set sail .
When I had made twenty-four leagues , by my reckoning , from the island of Blefuscu , I saw a sail steering to the northeast .
I hailed her , but could get no answer ; yet I found I gained upon her , for the wind slackened ; and in half an hour she spied me , and discharged a gun .
I came up with her between five and six in the evening , Sept. 26 , 1701 ; but my heart leaped within me to see her English colors .
I put my cows and sheep into my coat pockets , and got on board with all my little cargo .
The captain received me with kindness , and asked me to tell him what place I came from last ; but at my answer he thought I was raving .
However , I took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket , which , after great astonishment , clearly convinced him .
We arrived in England on the 13th of April , 1702 .
I stayed two months with my wife and family ; but my eager desire to see foreign countries would suffer me to remain no longer .
However , while in England I made great profit by showing my cattle to persons of quality and others ; and before I began my second voyage I sold them for 600_l .
I left 1500_l .
with my wife , and fixed her in a good house ; then taking leave of her and my boy and girl , with tears on both sides , I sailed on board the `` Adventure . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Swift .
THE PRINCESS ON THE GLASS HILL Once upon a time there was a man who had a meadow which lay on the side of a mountain , and in the meadow there was a barn in which he stored hay .
But there had not been much hay in the barn for the last two years , for every St. John 's eve , when the grass was in the height of its vigor , it was all eaten clean up , just as if a whole flock of sheep had gnawed it down to the ground during the night .
This happened once , and it happened twice , but then the man got tired of losing his crop , and said to his sons -- he had three of them , and the third was called Cinderlad -- that one of them must go and sleep in the barn on St. John 's night , for it was absurd to let the grass be eaten up again , blade and stalk , as it had been the last two years , and the one who went to watch must keep a sharp look-out , the man said .
The eldest was quite willing to go to the meadow ; he would watch the grass , he said , and he would do it so well that neither man , nor beast , nor even the devil himself should have any of it .
So when evening came he went to the barn , and lay down to sleep , but when night was drawing near there was such a rumbling and such an earthquake that the walls and roof shook again , and the lad jumped up and took to his heels as fast as he could , and never even looked back , and the barn remained empty that year just as it had been for the last two .
Next St. John 's eve the man again said that he could not go on in this way , losing all the grass in the outlying field year after year , and that one of his sons must just go there and watch it , and watch well too .
So the next oldest son was willing to show what he could do .
He went to the barn and lay down to sleep , as his brother had done ; but when night was drawing near there was a great rumbling , and then an earthquake , which was even worse than that on the former St. John 's night , and when the youth heard it he was terrified , and went off , running as if for a wager .
The year after , it was Cinderlad 's turn , but when he made ready to go the others laughed at him , and mocked him .
`` Well , you are just the right one to watch the hay , you who have never learned anything but how to sit among the ashes and bake yourself ! ''
said they .
Cinderlad , however , did not trouble himself about what they said , but when evening drew near rambled away to the outlying field .
When he got there he went into the barn and lay down , but in about an hour 's time the rumbling and creaking began , and it was frightful to hear it .
`` Well , if it gets no worse than that , I can manage to stand it , '' thought Cinderlad .
In a little time the creaking began again , and the earth quaked so that all the hay flew about the boy .
`` Oh !
if it gets no worse than that I can manage to stand it , '' thought Cinderlad .
But then came a third rumbling , and a third earthquake , so violent that the boy thought the walls and roof had fallen down , but when that was over everything suddenly grew as still as death around him .
`` I am pretty sure that it will come again , '' thought Cinderlad ; but no , it did not .
Everything was quiet , and everything stayed quiet , and when he had lain still a short time he heard something that sounded as if a horse were standing chewing just outside the barn door .
He stole away to the door , which was ajar , to see what was there , and a horse was standing eating .
It was so big , and fat , and fine a horse that Cinderlad had never seen one like it before , and a saddle and bridle lay upon it , and a complete suit of armor for a knight , and everything was of copper , and so bright that it shone again .
`` Ha , ha !
it is thou who eatest up our hay then , '' thought the boy ; `` but I will stop that . ''
So he made haste , and took out his steel for striking fire , and threw it over the horse , and then it had no power to stir from the spot , and became so tame that the boy could do what he liked with it .
So he mounted it and rode away to a place which no one knew of but himself , and there he tied it up .
When he went home again his brothers laughed and asked how he had got on .
`` You did n't lie long in the barn , if even you have been so far as the field ! ''
said they .
`` I lay in the barn till the sun rose , but I saw nothing and heard nothing , not I , '' said the boy .
`` God knows what there was to make you two so frightened . ''
`` Well , we shall soon see whether you have watched the meadow or not , '' answered the brothers , but when they got there the grass was all standing just as long and as thick as it had been the night before .
The next St. John 's eve it was the same thing , once again : neither of the two brothers dared to go to the outlying field to watch the crop , but Cinderlad went , and everything happened exactly the same as on the previous St. John 's eve : first there was a rumbling and an earthquake , and then there was another , and then a third : but all three earthquakes were much , very much more violent than they had been the year before .
Then everything became still as death again , and the boy heard something chewing outside the barn door , so he stole as softly as he could to the door , which was slightly ajar , and again there was a horse standing close by the wall of the house , eating and chewing , and it was far larger and fatter than the first horse , and it had a saddle on its back , and a bridle was on it too , and a full suit of armor for a knight , all of bright silver , and as beautiful as anyone could wish to see .
`` Ho , ho ! ''
thought the boy , `` is it thou who eatest up our hay in the night ?
but I will put a stop to that . ''
So he took out his steel for striking fire , and threw it over the horse 's mane , and the beast stood there as quiet as a lamb .
Then the boy rode this horse , too , away to the place where he kept the other , and then went home again .
`` I suppose you will tell us that you have watched well again this time , '' said the brothers .
`` Well , so I have , '' said Cinderlad .
So they went there again , and there the grass was , standing as high and as thick as it had been before , but that did not make them any kinder to Cinderlad .
When the third St. John 's night came neither of the two elder brothers dared to lie in the outlying barn to watch the grass , for they had been so heartily frightened the night that they had slept there that they could not get over it , but Cinderlad dared to go , and everything happened just the same as on the two former nights .
There were three earthquakes , each worse than the other , and the last flung the boy from one wall of the barn to the other , but then everything suddenly became still as death .
When he had lain quietly a short time , he heard something chewing outside the barn door ; then he once more stole to the door , which was slightly ajar , and behold , a horse was standing just outside it , which was much larger and fatter than the two others he had caught .
`` Ho , ho !
it is thou , then , who art eating up our hay this time , '' thought the boy ; `` but I will put a stop to that . ''
So he pulled out his steel for striking fire , and threw it over the horse , and it stood as still as if it had been nailed to the field , and the boy could do just what he liked with it .
Then he mounted it and rode away to the place where he had the two others , and then he went home again .
Then the two brothers mocked him just as they had done before , and told him that they could see that he must have watched the grass very carefully that night , for he looked just as if he were walking in his sleep ; but Cinderlad did not trouble himself about that , but just bade them go to the field and see .
They did go , and this time too the grass was standing , looking as fine and as thick as ever .
The King of the country in which Cinderlad 's father dwelt had a daughter whom he would give to no one who could not ride up to the top of the glass hill , for there was a high , high hill of glass , slippery as ice , and it was close to the King 's palace .
Upon the very top of this the King 's daughter was to sit with three gold apples in her lap , and the man who could ride up and take the three golden apples should marry her , and have half the kingdom .
The King had this proclaimed in every church in the whole kingdom , and in many other kingdoms too .
The Princess was very beautiful , and all who saw her fell violently in love with her , even in spite of themselves .
So it is needless to say that all the princes and knights were eager to win her , and half the kingdom besides , and that for this cause they came riding thither from the very end of the world , dressed so splendidly that their raiments gleamed in the sunshine , and riding on horses which seemed to dance as they went , and there was not one of these princes who did not think that he was sure to win the Princess .
When the day appointed by the King had come , there was such a host of knights and princes under the glass hill that they seemed to swarm , and everyone who could walk or even creep was there too , to see who won the King 's daughter .
Cinderlad 's two brothers were there too , but they would not hear of letting him go with them , for he was so dirty and black with sleeping and grubbing among the ashes that they said everyone would laugh at them if they were seen in the company of such an oaf .
`` Well , then , I will go all alone by myself , '' said Cinderlad .
When the two brothers got to the glass hill , all the princes and knights were trying to ride up it , and their horses were in a foam ; but it was all in vain , for no sooner did the horses set foot upon the hill than down they slipped , and there was not one which could get even so much as a couple of yards up .
Nor was that strange , for the hill was as smooth as a glass window-pane , and as steep as the side of a house .
But they were all eager to win the King 's daughter and half the kingdom , so they rode and they slipped , and thus it went on .
At length all the horses were so tired that they could do no more , and so hot that the foam dropped from them and the riders were forced to give up the attempt .
The King was just thinking that he would cause it to be proclaimed that the riding should begin afresh on the following day , when perhaps it might go better , when suddenly a knight came riding up on so fine a horse that no one had ever seen the like of it before , and the knight had armor of copper , and his bridle was of copper too , and all his accoutrements were so bright that they shone again .
The other knights all called out to him that he might just as well spare himself the trouble of trying to ride up the glass hill , for it was of no use to try ; but he did not heed them , and rode straight off to it , and went up as if it were nothing at all .
Thus he rode for a long way -- it may have been a third part of the way up -- but when he had got so far he turned his horse round and rode down again .
But the Princess thought that she had never yet seen so handsome a knight , and while he was riding up she was sitting thinking , `` Oh !
how I hope he may be able to come up to the top ! ''
And when she saw that he was turning his horse back she threw one of the golden apples down after him , and it rolled into his shoe .
But when he had come down from off the hill he rode away , and that so fast that no one knew what had become of him .
So all the princes and knights were bidden to present themselves before the King that night , so that he who had ridden so far up the glass hill might show the golden apple which the King 's daughter had thrown down .
But no one had anything to show .
One knight presented himself after the other , and none could show the apple .
At night , too , Cinderlad 's brothers came home again and had a long story to tell about riding up the glass hill .
At first , they said , there was not one who was able to get even so much as one step up , but then came a knight who had armor of copper , and a bridle of copper , and his armor and trappings were so bright that they shone to a great distance , and it was something like a sight to see him riding .
He rode one-third of the way up the glass hill , and he could easily have ridden the whole of it if he had liked ; but he had turned back , for he had made up his mind that that was enough for once .
`` Oh !
I should have liked to see him too , that I should , '' said Cinderlad , who was as usual sitting by the chimney among the cinders .
`` You , indeed ! ''
said the brothers , `` you look as if you were fit to be among such great lords , nasty beast that you are to sit there ! ''
Next day the brothers were for setting out again , and this time too Cinderlad begged them to let him go with them and see who rode ; but no , they said he was not fit to do that , for he was much too ugly and dirty .
`` Well , well , then I will go all alone by myself , '' said Cinderlad .
So the brothers went to the glass hill , and all the princes and knights began to ride again , and this time they had taken care to roughen the shoes of their horses ; but that did not help them : they rode and they slipped as they had done the day before , and not one of them could get even so far as a yard up the hill .
When they had tired out their horses , so that they could do no more , they again had to stop altogether .
But just as the King was thinking that it would be well to proclaim that the riding should take place next day for the last time , so that they might have one more chance , he suddenly bethought himself that it would be well to wait a little longer to see if the knight in copper armor would come on this day too .
But nothing was to be seen of him .
Just as they were still looking for him , however , came a knight riding on a steed that was much , much finer than that which the knight in copper armor had ridden , and this knight had silver armor and a silver saddle and bridle , and all were so bright that they shone and glistened when he was a long way off .
Again the other knights called to him , and said that he might just as well give up the attempt to ride up the glass hill , for it was useless to try ; but the knight paid no heed to that , but rode straight away to the glass hill , and went still farther up than the knight in copper armor had gone ; but when he had ridden two-thirds of the way up he turned his horse around , and rode down again .
The Princess liked this knight still better than she had liked the other , and sat longing that he might be able to get up above , and when she saw him turning back she threw the second apple after him , and it rolled into his shoe , and as soon as he had got down the glass hill he rode away so fast that no one could see what had become of him .
In the evening , when everyone was to appear before the King and Princess , in order that he who had the golden apple might show it , one knight went in after the other , but none of them had a golden apple to show .
At night the two brothers went home as they had done the night before , and told how things had gone , and how everyone had ridden , but no one had been able to get up the hill .
`` But last of all , '' they said , `` came one in silver armor , and he had a silver bridle on his horse , and a silver saddle , and oh , but he could ride !
He took his horse two-thirds of the way up the hill , but then he turned back .
He was a fine fellow , '' said the brothers , `` and the Princess threw the second golden apple to him ! ''
`` Oh , how I should have liked to see him too ! ''
said Cinderlad .
`` Oh , indeed !
He was a little brighter than the ashes that you sit grubbing among , you dirty black creature ! ''
said the brothers .
On the third day everything went just as on the former days .
Cinderlad wanted to go with them to look at the riding , but the two brothers would not have him in their company , and when they got to the glass hill there was no one who could ride even so far as a yard up it , and everyone waited for the knight in silver armor , but he was neither to be seen nor heard of .
At last , after a long time , came a knight riding upon a horse that was such a fine one , its equal had never yet been seen .
The knight had golden armor , and the horse a golden saddle and bridle , and these were all so bright that they shone and dazzled everyone , even while the knight was still at a great distance .
The other princes and knights were not able even to call to tell him how useless it was to try to ascend the hill , so amazed were they at sight of his magnificence .
He rode straight away to the glass hill , and galloped up it as if it were no hill at all , so that the Princess had not even time to wish that he might get up the whole way .
As soon as he had ridden to the top , he took the third golden apple from the lap of the Princess and then turned his horse about and rode down again , and vanished from their sight before anyone was able to say a word to him .
When the two brothers came home again at night they had much to tell of how the riding had gone off that day , and at last they told about the knight in the golden armor too .
`` He was a fine fellow , that was !
Such another splendid knight is not to be found on earth ! ''
said the brothers .
`` Oh , how I should have liked to see him too ! ''
said Cinderlad .
`` Well , he shone nearly as brightly as the coal-heaps that thou art always lying raking among , dirty black creature that thou art ! ''
said the brothers .
Next day all the knights and princes were to appear before the King and Princess -- it had been too late for them to do it the night before -- in order that he who had the golden apple might produce it .
They all went in turn , first princes , and then knights , but none of them had a golden apple .
`` But somebody must have it , '' said the King , `` for with our own eyes we all saw a man ride up and take it . ''
So he commanded that everyone in the kingdom should come to the palace , and see if he could show the apple .
And one after the other they all came , but no one had the golden apple , and after a long , long time Cinderlad 's two brothers came likewise .
They were the last of all , so the King inquired of them if there was no one else in the kingdom left to come .
`` Oh !
yes , we have a brother , '' said the two , `` but he never got the golden apple !
He never left the cinder-heap on any of the three days . ''
`` Never mind that , '' said the King ; `` as everyone else has come to the palace , let him come too . ''
So Cinderlad was forced to go to the King 's palace .
`` Hast thou the golden apple ? ''
asked the King .
`` Yes , here is the first , and here is the second , and here is the third , too , '' said Cinderlad , and he took all three apples out of his pocket , and with that drew off his sooty rags , and appeared there before them in his bright golden armor , which gleamed as he stood .
`` Thou shalt have my daughter , and the half of my kingdom , and thou hast well earned both ! ''
said the King .
So there was a wedding , and Cinderlad got the King 's daughter , and everyone made merry at the wedding , for all of them could make merry , though they could not ride up the glass hill , and if they have not left off their merry-making they must be at it still .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Asbjornsen and Moe .
THE STORY OF PRINCE AHMED AND THE FAIRY PARIBANOU There was a sultan , who had three sons and a niece .
The eldest of the Princes was called Houssain , the second Ali , the youngest Ahmed , and the Princess , his niece , Nouronnihar .
The Princess Nouronnihar was the daughter of the younger brother of the Sultan , who died , and left the Princess very young .
The Sultan took upon himself the care of his daughter 's education , and brought her up in his palace with the three Princes , proposing to marry her when she arrived at a proper age , and to contract an alliance with some neighboring prince by that means .
But when he perceived that the three Princes , his sons , loved her passionately , he thought more seriously on that affair .
He was very much concerned ; the difficulty he foresaw was to make them agree , and that the two youngest should consent to yield her up to their elder brother .
As he found them positively obstinate , he sent for them all together , and said to them : `` Children , since for your good and quiet I have not been able to persuade you no longer to aspire to the Princess , your cousin , I think it would not be amiss if every one traveled separately into different countries , so that you might not meet each other .
And , as you know I am very curious , and delight in everything that 's singular , I promise my niece in marriage to him that shall bring me the most extraordinary rarity ; and for the purchase of the rarity you shall go in search after , and the expense of traveling , I will give you every one a sum of money . ''
As the three Princes were always submissive and obedient to the Sultan 's will , and each flattered himself fortune might prove favorable to him , they all consented to it .
The Sultan paid them the money he promised them ; and that very day they gave orders for the preparations for their travels , and took their leave of the Sultan , that they might be the more ready to go the next morning .
Accordingly they all set out at the same gate of the city , each dressed like a merchant , attended by an officer of confidence dressed like a slave , and all well mounted and equipped .
They went the first day 's journey together , and lay all at an inn , where the road was divided into three different tracts .
At night , when they were at supper together , they all agreed to travel for a year , and to meet at that inn ; and that the first that came should wait for the rest ; that , as they had all three taken their leave together of the Sultan , they might all return together .
The next morning by break of day , after they had embraced and wished each other good success , they mounted their horses and took each a different road .
Prince Houssain , the eldest brother , arrived at Bisnagar , the capital of the kingdom of that name , and the residence of its king .
He went and lodged at a khan appointed for foreign merchants ; and , having learned that there were four principal divisions where merchants of all sorts sold their commodities , and kept shops , and in the midst of which stood the castle , or rather the King 's palace , he went to one of these divisions the next day .
Prince Houssain could not view this division without admiration .
It was large , and divided into several streets , all vaulted and shaded from the sun , and yet very light too .
The shops were all of a size , and all that dealt in the same sort of goods lived in one street ; as also the handicrafts-men , who kept their shops in the smaller streets .
The multitude of shops , stocked with all sorts of merchandise , as the finest linens from several parts of India , some painted in the most lively colors , and representing beasts , trees , and flowers ; silks and brocades from Persia , China , and other places , porcelain both from Japan and China , and tapestries , surprised him so much that he knew not how to believe his own eyes ; but when he came to the goldsmiths and jewelers he was in a kind of ecstacy to behold such prodigious quantities of wrought gold and silver , and was dazzled by the lustre of the pearls , diamonds , rubies , emeralds , and other jewels exposed to sale .
Another thing Prince Houssain particularly admired was the great number of rose-sellers who crowded the streets ; for the Indians are so great lovers of that flower that no one will stir without a nosegay in his hand or a garland on his head ; and the merchants keep them in pots in their shops , that the air is perfectly perfumed .
After Prince Houssain had run through that division , street by street , his thoughts fully employed on the riches he had seen , he was very much tired , which a merchant perceiving , civilly invited him to sit down in his shop , and he accepted ; but had not been sat down long before he saw a crier pass by with a piece of tapestry on his arm , about six feet square , and cried at thirty purses .
The Prince called to the crier , and asked to see the tapestry , which seemed to him to be valued at an exorbitant price , not only for the size of it , but the meanness of the stuff ; when he had examined it well , he told the crier that he could not comprehend how so small a piece of tapestry , and of so indifferent appearance , could be set at so high a price .
The crier , who took him for a merchant , replied : `` If this price seems so extravagant to you , your amazement will be greater when I tell you I have orders to raise it to forty purses , and not to part with it under . ''
`` Certainly , '' answered Prince Houssain , `` it must have something very extraordinary in it , which I know nothing of . ''
`` You have guessed it , sir , '' replied the crier , `` and will own it when you come to know that whoever sits on this piece of tapestry may be transported in an instant wherever he desires to be , without being stopped by any obstacle . ''
At this discourse of the crier the Prince of the Indies , considering that the principal motive of his travel was to carry the Sultan , his father , home some singular rarity , thought that he could not meet with any which could give him more satisfaction .
`` If the tapestry , '' said he to the crier , `` has the virtue you assign it , I shall not think forty purses too much , but shall make you a present besides . ''
`` Sir , '' replied the crier , `` I have told you the truth ; and it is an easy matter to convince you of it , as soon as you have made the bargain for forty purses , on condition I show you the experiment .
But , as I suppose you have not so much about you , and to receive them I must go with you to your khan , where you lodge , with the leave of the master of the shop , we will go into the back shop , and I will spread the tapestry ; and when we have both sat down , and you have formed the wish to be transported into your apartment of the khan , if we are not transported thither it shall be no bargain , and you shall be at your liberty .
As to your present , though I am paid for my trouble by the seller , I shall receive it as a favor , and be very much obliged to you , and thankful . ''
On the credit of the crier , the Prince accepted the conditions , and concluded the bargain ; and , having got the master 's leave , they went into his back shop ; they both sat down on it , and as soon as the Prince formed his wish to be transported into his apartment at the khan he presently found himself and the crier there ; and , as he wanted not a more sufficient proof of the virtue of the tapestry , he counted the crier out forty pieces of gold , and gave him twenty pieces for himself .
In this manner Prince Houssain became the possessor of the tapestry , and was overjoyed that at his arrival at Bisnagar he had found so rare a piece , which he never disputed would gain him the hand of Nouronnihar .
In short , he looked upon it as an impossible thing for the Princes his younger brothers to meet with anything to be compared with it .
It was in his power , by sitting on his tapestry , to be at the place of meeting that very day ; but , as he was obliged to stay there for his brothers , as they had agreed , and as he was curious to see the King of Bisnagar and his Court , and to inform himself of the strength , laws , customs , and religion of the kingdom , he chose to make a longer abode there , and to spend some months in satisfying his curiosity .
Prince Houssain might have made a longer abode in the kingdom and Court of Bisnagar , but he was so eager to be nearer the Princess that , spreading the tapestry , he and the officer he had brought with him sat down , and as soon as he had formed his wish were transported to the inn at which he and his brothers were to meet , and where he passed for a merchant till they came .
Prince Ali , Prince Houssain 's second brother , who designed to travel into Persia , took the road , having three days after he parted with his brothers joined a caravan , and after four days ' travel arrived at Schiraz , which was the capital of the kingdom of Persia .
Here he passed for a jeweler .
The next morning Prince Ali , who traveled only for his pleasure , and had brought nothing but just necessaries along with him , after he had dressed himself , took a walk into that part of the town which they at Schiraz called the bezestein .
Among all the criers who passed backward and forward with several sorts of goods , offering to sell them , he was not a little surprised to see one who held an ivory telescope in his hand of about a foot in length and the thickness of a man 's thumb , and cried it at thirty purses .
At first he thought the crier mad , and to inform himself went to a shop , and said to the merchant , who stood at the door : `` Pray , sir , is not that man '' -LRB- pointing to the crier who cried the ivory perspective glass at thirty purses -RRB- `` mad ?
If he is not , I am very much deceived . ''
`` Indeed , sir , '' answered the merchant , `` he was in his right senses yesterday ; I can assure you he is one of the ablest criers we have , and the most employed of any when anything valuable is to be sold .
And if he cries the ivory perspective glass at thirty purses it must be worth as much or more , on some account or other .
He will come by presently , and we will call him , and you shall be satisfied ; in the meantime sit down on my sofa , and rest yourself . ''
Prince Ali accepted the merchant 's obliging offer , and presently afterward the crier passed by .
The merchant called him by his name , and , pointing to the Prince , said to him : `` Tell that gentleman , who asked me if you were in your right senses , what you mean by crying that ivory perspective glass , which seems not to be worth much , at thirty purses .
I should be very much amazed myself if I did not know you . ''
The crier , addressing himself to Prince Ali , said : `` Sir , you are not the only person that takes me for a madman on account of this perspective glass .
You shall judge yourself whether I am or no , when I have told you its property and I hope you will value it at as high a price as those I have showed it to already , who had as bad an opinion of me as you .
`` First , sir , '' pursued the crier , presenting the ivory pipe to the Prince , `` observe that this pipe is furnished with a glass at both ends ; and consider that by looking through one of them you see whatever object you wish to behold . ''
`` I am , '' said the Prince , `` ready to make you all imaginable reparation for the scandal I have thrown on you if you will make the truth of what you advance appear , '' and as he had the ivory pipe in his hand , after he had looked at the two glasses he said : `` Show me at which of these ends I must look that I may be satisfied . ''
The crier presently showed him , and he looked through , wishing at the same time to see the Sultan his father , whom he immediately beheld in perfect health , set on his throne , in the midst of his council .
Afterward , as there was nothing in the world so dear to him , after the Sultan , as the Princess Nouronnihar , he wished to see her ; and saw her at her toilet laughing , and in a pleasant humor , with her women about her .
Prince Ali wanted no other proof to be persuaded that this perspective glass was the most valuable thing in the world , and believed that if he should neglect to purchase it he should never meet again with such another rarity .
He therefore took the crier with him to the khan where he lodged , and counted him out the money , and received the perspective glass .
Prince Ali was overjoyed at his bargain , and persuaded himself that , as his brothers would not be able to meet with anything so rare and admirable , the Princess Nouronnihar would be the recompense of his fatigue and trouble ; that he thought of nothing but visiting the Court of Persia incognito , and seeing whatever was curious in Schiraz and thereabouts , till the caravan with which he came returned back to the Indies .
As soon as the caravan was ready to set out , the Prince joined them , and arrived happily without any accident or trouble , otherwise than the length of the journey and fatigue of traveling , at the place of rendezvous , where he found Prince Houssain , and both waited for Prince Ahmed .
Prince Ahmed , who took the road of Samarcand , the next day after his arrival there went , as his brothers had done , into the bezestein , where he had not walked long but heard a crier , who had an artificial apple in his hand , cry it at five and thirty purses ; upon which he stopped the crier , and said to him : `` Let me see that apple , and tell me what virtue and extraordinary properties it has , to be valued at so high a rate . ''
`` Sir , '' said the crier , giving it into his hand , `` if you look at the outside of this apple , it is very worthless , but if you consider its properties , virtues , and the great use and benefit it is to mankind , you will say it is no price for it , and that he who possesses it is master of a great treasure .
In short , it cures all sick persons of the most mortal diseases ; and if the patient is dying it will recover him immediately and restore him to perfect health ; and this is done after the easiest manner in the world , which is by the patient 's smelling the apple . ''
`` If I may believe you , '' replied Prince Ahmed , `` the virtues of this apple are wonderful , and it is invaluable ; but what ground have I , for all you tell me , to be persuaded of the truth of this matter ? ''
`` Sir , '' replied the crier , `` the thing is known and averred by the whole city of Samarcand ; but , without going any further , ask all these merchants you see here , and hear what they say .
You will find several of them will tell you they had not been alive this day if they had not made use of this excellent remedy .
And , that you may better comprehend what it is , I must tell you it is the fruit of the study and experiments of a celebrated philosopher of this city , who applied himself all his lifetime to the study and knowledge of the virtues of plants and minerals , and at last attained to this composition , by which he performed such surprising cures in this town as will never be forgot , but died suddenly himself , before he could apply his sovereign remedy , and left his wife and a great many young children behind him , in very indifferent circumstances , who , to support her family and provide for her children , is resolved to sell it . ''
While the crier informed Prince Ahmed of the virtues of the artificial apple , a great many persons came about them and confirmed what he said ; and one among the rest said he had a friend dangerously ill , whose life was despaired of ; and that was a favorable opportunity to show Prince Ahmed the experiment .
Upon which Prince Ahmed told the crier he would give him forty purses if he cured the sick person .
The crier , who had orders to sell it at that price , said to Prince Ahmed : `` Come , sir , let us go and make the experiment , and the apple shall be yours ; and I can assure you that it will always have the desired effect . ''
In short , the experiment succeeded , and the Prince , after he had counted out to the crier forty purses , and he had delivered the apple to him , waited patiently for the first caravan that should return to the Indies , and arrived in perfect health at the inn where the Princes Houssain and Ali waited for him .
When the Princes met they showed each other their treasures , and immediately saw through the glass that the Princess was dying .
They then sat down on the carpet , wished themselves with her , and were there in a moment .
Prince Ahmed no sooner perceived himself in Nouronnihar 's chamber than he rose off the tapestry , as did also the other two Princes , and went to the bedside , and put the apple under her nose ; some moments after the Princess opened her eyes , and turned her head from one side to another , looking at the persons who stood about her ; and then rose up in the bed , and asked to be dressed , just as if she had waked out of a sound sleep .
Her women having presently informed her , in a manner that showed their joy , that she was obliged to the three Princes for the sudden recovery of her health , and particularly to Prince Ahmed , she immediately expressed her joy to see them , and thanked them all together , and afterward Prince Ahmed in particular .
While the Princess was dressing the Princes went to throw themselves at the Sultan their father 's feet , and pay their respects to him .
But when they came before him they found he had been informed of their arrival by the chief of the Princess 's eunuchs , and by what means the Princess had been perfectly cured .
The Sultan received and embraced them with the greatest joy , both for their return and the recovery of the Princess his niece , whom he loved as well as if she had been his own daughter , and who had been given over by the physicians .
After the usual ceremonies and compliments the Princes presented each his rarity : Prince Houssain his tapestry , which he had taken care not to leave behind him in the Princess 's chamber ; Prince Ali his ivory perspective glass , and Prince Ahmed his artificial apple ; and after each had commended their present , when they put it into the Sultan 's hands , they begged of him to pronounce their fate , and declare to which of them he would give the Princess Nouronnihar for a wife , according to his promise .
The Sultan of the Indies , having heard , without interrupting them , all that the Princes could represent further about their rarities , and being well informed of what had happened in relation to the Princess Nouronnihar 's cure , remained some time silent , as if he were thinking on what answer he should make .
At last he broke the silence , and said to them : `` I would declare for one of you children with a great deal of pleasure if I could do it with justice ; but consider whether I can do it or no .
'T is true , Prince Ahmed , the Princess my niece is obliged to your artificial apple for her cure ; but I must ask you whether or no you could have been so serviceable to her if you had not known by Prince Ali 's perspective glass the danger she was in , and if Prince Houssain 's tapestry had not brought you so soon .
Your perspective glass , Prince Ali , informed you and your brothers that you were like to lose the Princess your cousin , and there you must own a great obligation .
`` You must also grant that that knowledge would have been of no service without the artificial apple and the tapestry .
And lastly , Prince Houssain , the Princess would be very ungrateful if she should not show her acknowledgment of the service of your tapestry , which was so necessary a means toward her cure .
But consider , it would have been of little use if you had not been acquainted with the Princess 's illness by Prince Ali 's glass , and Prince Ahmed had not applied his artificial apple .
Therefore , as neither tapestry , ivory perspective glass , nor artificial apple have the least preference one before the other , but , on the contrary , there 's a perfect equality , I can not grant the Princess to any one of you ; and the only fruit you have reaped from your travels is the glory of having equally contributed to restore her health .
`` If all this be true , '' added the Sultan , `` you see that I must have recourse to other means to determine certainly in the choice I ought to make among you ; and that , as there is time enough between this and night , I 'll do it to-day .
Go and get each of you a bow and arrow , and repair to the great plain , where they exercise horses .
I 'll soon come to you , and declare I will give the Princess Nouronnihar to him that shoots the farthest . ''
The three Princes had nothing to say against the decision of the Sultan .
When they were out of his presence they each provided themselves with a bow and arrow , which they delivered to one of their officers , and went to the plain appointed , followed by a great concourse of people .
The Sultan did not make them wait long for him , and as soon as he arrived Prince Houssain , as the eldest , took his bow and arrow and shot first ; Prince Ali shot next , and much beyond him ; and Prince Ahmed last of all , but it so happened that nobody could see where his arrow fell ; and , notwithstanding all the diligence that was used by himself and everybody else , it was not to be found far or near .
And though it was believed that he shot the farthest , and that he therefore deserved the Princess Nouronnihar , it was , however , necessary that his arrow should be found to make the matter more evident and certain ; and , notwithstanding his remonstrance , the Sultan judged in favor of Prince Ali , and gave orders for preparations to be made for the wedding , which was celebrated a few days after with great magnificence .
Prince Houssain would not honor the feast with his presence .
In short , his grief was so violent and insupportable that he left the Court , and renounced all right of succession to the crown , to turn hermit .
Prince Ahmed , too , did not come to Prince Ali 's and the Princess Nouronnihar 's wedding any more than his brother Houssain , but did not renounce the world as he had done .
But , as he could not imagine what had become of his arrow , he stole away from his attendants and resolved to search after it , that he might not have anything to reproach himself with .
With this intent he went to the place where the Princes Houssain 's and Ali 's were gathered up , and , going straight forward from there , looking carefully on both sides of him , he went so far that at last he began to think his labor was all in vain ; but yet he could not help going forward till he came to some steep craggy rocks , which were bounds to his journey , and were situated in a barren country , about four leagues distant from where he set out .
II When Prince Ahmed came pretty nigh to these rocks he perceived an arrow , which he gathered up , looked earnestly at it , and was in the greatest astonishment to find it was the same he shot away .
`` Certainly , '' said he to himself , `` neither I nor any man living could shoot an arrow so far , '' and , finding it laid flat , not sticking into the ground , he judged that it rebounded against the rock .
`` There must be some mystery in this , '' said he to himself again , `` and it may be advantageous to me .
Perhaps fortune , to make me amends for depriving me of what I thought the greatest happiness , may have reserved a greater blessing for my comfort . ''
As these rocks were full of caves and some of those caves were deep , the Prince entered into one , and , looking about , cast his eyes on an iron door , which seemed to have no lock , but he feared it was fastened .
However , thrusting against it , it opened , and discovered an easy descent , but no steps , which he walked down with his arrow in his hand .
At first he thought he was going into a dark , obscure place , but presently a quite different light succeeded that which he came out of , and , entering into a large , spacious place , at about fifty or sixty paces distant , he perceived a magnificent palace , which he had not then time enough to look at .
At the same time a lady of majestic port and air advanced as far as the porch , attended by a large troop of ladies , so finely dressed and beautiful that it was difficult to distinguish which was the mistress .
As soon as Prince Ahmed perceived the lady , he made all imaginable haste to go and pay his respects ; and the lady , on her part , seeing him coming , prevented him from addressing his discourse to her first , but said to him : `` Come nearer , Prince Ahmed , you are welcome . ''
It was no small surprise to the Prince to hear himself named in a place he had never heard of , though so nigh to his father 's capital , and he could not comprehend how he should be known to a lady who was a stranger to him .
At last he returned the lady 's compliment by throwing himself at her feet , and , rising up again , said to her : `` Madam , I return you a thousand thanks for the assurance you give me of a welcome to a place where I believed my imprudent curiosity had made me penetrate too far .
But , madam , may I , without being guilty of ill manners , dare to ask you by what adventure you know me ?
and how you , who live in the same neighborhood with me , should be so great a stranger to me ? ''
`` Prince , '' said the lady , `` let us go into the hall , there I will gratify you in your request . ''
After these words the lady led Prince Ahmed into the hall .
Then she sat down on a sofa , and when the Prince by her entreaty had done the same she said : `` You are surprised , you say , that I should know you and not be known by you , but you will be no longer surprised when I inform you who I am .
You are undoubtedly sensible that your religion teaches you to believe that the world is inhabited by genies as well as men .
I am the daughter of one of the most powerful and distinguished genies , and my name is Paribanou .
The only thing that I have to add is , that you seemed to me worthy of a more happy fate than that of possessing the Princess Nouronnihar ; and , that you might attain to it , I was present when you drew your arrow , and foresaw it would not go beyond Prince Houssain 's .
I took it in the air , and gave it the necessary motion to strike against the rocks near which you found it , and I tell you that it lies in your power to make use of the favorable opportunity which presents itself to make you happy . ''
As the Fairy Paribanou pronounced these last words with a different tone , and looked , at the same time , tenderly upon Prince Ahmed , with a modest blush on her cheeks , it was no hard matter for the Prince to comprehend what happiness she meant .
He presently considered that the Princess Nouronnihar could never be his and that the Fairy Paribanou excelled her infinitely in beauty , agreeableness , wit , and , as much as he could conjecture by the magnificence of the palace , in immense riches .
He blessed the moment that he thought of seeking after his arrow a second time , and , yielding to his love , `` Madam , '' replied he , `` should I all my life have the happiness of being your slave , and the admirer of the many charms which ravish my soul , I should think myself the most blessed of men .
Pardon in me the boldness which inspires me to ask this favor , and do n't refuse to admit me into your Court , a prince who is entirely devoted to you . ''
`` Prince , '' answered the Fairy , `` will you not pledge your faith to me , as well as I give mine to you ? ''
`` Yes , madam , '' replied the Prince , in an ecstacy of joy ; `` what can I do better , and with greater pleasure ?
Yes , my sultaness , my queen , I 'll give you my heart without the least reserve . ''
`` Then , '' answered the Fairy , `` you are my husband , and I am your wife .
But , as I suppose , '' pursued she , `` that you have eaten nothing to-day , a slight repast shall be served up for you , while preparations are making for our wedding feast at night , and then I will show you the apartments of my palace , and you shall judge if this hall is not the meanest part of it . ''
Some of the Fairy 's women , who came into the hall with them , and guessed her intentions , went immediately out , and returned presently with some excellent meats and wines .
When Prince Ahmed had ate and drunk as much as he cared for , the Fairy Paribanou carried him through all the apartments , where he saw diamonds , rubies , emeralds and all sorts of fine jewels , intermixed with pearls , agate , jasper , porphyry , and all sorts of the most precious marbles .
But , not to mention the richness of the furniture , which was inestimable , there was such a profuseness throughout that the Prince , instead of ever having seen anything like it , owned that he could not have imagined that there was anything in the world that could come up to it .
`` Prince , '' said the Fairy , `` if you admire my palace so much , which , indeed , is very beautiful , what would you say to the palaces of the chief of our genies , which are much more beautiful , spacious , and magnificent ?
I could also charm you with my gardens , but we will let that alone till another time .
Night draws near , and it will be time to go to supper . ''
The next hall which the Fairy led the Prince into , and where the cloth was laid for the feast , was the last apartment the Prince had not seen , and not in the least inferior to the others .
At his entrance into it he admired the infinite number of sconces of wax candles perfumed with amber , the multitude of which , instead of being confused , were placed with so just a symmetry as formed an agreeable and pleasant sight .
A large side table was set out with all sorts of gold plate , so finely wrought that the workmanship was much more valuable than the weight of the gold .
Several choruses of beautiful women richly dressed , and whose voices were ravishing , began a concert , accompanied with all sorts of the most harmonious instruments ; and when they were set down at table the Fairy Paribanou took care to help Prince Ahmed to the most delicate meats , which she named as she invited him to eat of them , and which the Prince found to be so exquisitely nice that he commended them with exaggeration , and said that the entertainment far surpassed those of man .
He found also the same excellence in the wines , which neither he nor the Fairy tasted of till the dessert was served up , which consisted of the choicest sweetmeats and fruits .
The wedding feast was continued the next day , or , rather , the days following the celebration were a continual feast .
At the end of six months Prince Ahmed , who always loved and honored the Sultan his father , conceived a great desire to know how he was , and that desire could not be satisfied without his going to see ; he told the Fairy of it , and desired she would give him leave .
`` Prince , '' said she , `` go when you please .
But first , do n't take it amiss that I give you some advice how you shall behave yourself where you are going .
First , I do n't think it proper for you to tell the Sultan your father of our marriage , nor of my quality , nor the place where you have been .
Beg of him to be satisfied in knowing you are happy , and desire no more ; and let him know that the sole end of your visit is to make him easy , and inform him of your fate . ''
She appointed twenty gentlemen , well mounted and equipped , to attend him .
When all was ready Prince Ahmed took his leave of the Fairy , embraced her , and renewed his promise to return soon .
Then his horse , which was most finely caparisoned , and was as beautiful a creature as any in the Sultan of Indies ' stables , was led to him , and he mounted him with an extraordinary grace ; and , after he had bid her a last adieu , set forward on his journey .
As it was not a great way to his father 's capital , Prince Ahmed soon arrived there .
The people , glad to see him again , received him with acclamations of joy , and followed him in crowds to the Sultan 's apartment .
The Sultan received and embraced him with great joy , complaining at the same time , with a fatherly tenderness , of the affliction his long absence had been to him , which he said was the more grievous for that , fortune having decided in favor of Prince Ali his brother , he was afraid he might have committed some rash action .
The Prince told a story of his adventures without speaking of the Fairy , whom he said that he must not mention , and ended : `` The only favor I ask of your Majesty is to give me leave to come often and pay you my respects , and to know how you do . ''
`` Son , '' answered the Sultan of the Indies , `` I can not refuse you the leave you ask me ; but I should much rather you would resolve to stay with me ; at least tell me where I may send to you if you should fail to come , or when I may think your presence necessary . ''
`` Sir , '' replied Prince Ahmed , `` what your Majesty asks of me is part of the mystery I spoke to your Majesty of .
I beg of you to give me leave to remain silent on this head , for I shall come so frequently that I am afraid that I shall sooner be thought troublesome than be accused of negligence in my duty . ''
The Sultan of the Indies pressed Prince Ahmed no more , but said to him : `` Son , I penetrate no farther into your secrets , but leave you at your liberty ; but can tell you that you could not do me a greater pleasure than to come , and by your presence restore to me the joy I have not felt this long time , and that you shall always be welcome when you come , without interrupting your business or pleasure . ''
Prince Ahmed stayed but three days at the Sultan his father 's Court , and the fourth returned to the Fairy Paribanou , who did not expect him so soon .
A month after Prince Ahmed 's return from paying a visit to his father , as the Fairy Paribanou had observed that the Prince , since the time that he gave her an account of his journey , his discourse with his father , and the leave he asked to go and see him often , had never talked of the Sultan , as if there had been no such person in the world , whereas before he was always speaking of him , she thought he forebore on her account ; therefore she took an opportunity to say to him one day : `` Prince , tell me , have you forgot the Sultan your father ?
Do n't you remember the promise you made to go and see him often ?
For my part I have not forgot what you told me at your return , and so put you in mind of it , that you may not be long before you acquit yourself of your promise . ''
So Prince Ahmed went the next morning with the same attendance as before , but much finer , and himself more magnificently mounted , equipped , and dressed , and was received by the Sultan with the same joy and satisfaction .
For several months he constantly paid his visits , always in a richer and finer equipage .
At last some viziers , the Sultan 's favorites , who judged of Prince Ahmed 's grandeur and power by the figure he cut , made the Sultan jealous of his son , saying it was to be feared he might inveigle himself into the people 's favor and dethrone him .
The Sultan of the Indies was so far from thinking that Prince Ahmed could be capable of so pernicious a design as his favorites would make him believe that he said to them : `` You are mistaken ; my son loves me , and I am certain of his tenderness and fidelity , as I have given him no reason to be disgusted . ''
But the favorites went on abusing Prince Ahmed till the Sultan said : `` Be it as it will , I do n't believe my son Ahmed is so wicked as you would persuade me he is ; how ever , I am obliged to you for your good advice , and do n't dispute but that it proceeds from your good intentions . ''
The Sultan of the Indies said this that his favorites might not know the impressions their discourse had made on his mind ; which had so alarmed him that he resolved to have Prince Ahmed watched unknown to his grand vizier .
So he sent for a female magician , who was introduced by a back door into his apartment .
`` Go immediately , '' he said , `` and follow my son , and watch him so well as to find out where he retires , and bring me word . ''
The magician left the Sultan , and , knowing the place where Prince Ahmed found his arrow , went immediately thither , and hid herself near the rocks , so that nobody could see her .
The next morning Prince Ahmed set out by daybreak , without taking leave either of the Sultan or any of his Court , according to custom .
The magician , seeing him coming , followed him with her eyes , till on a sudden she lost sight of him and his attendants .
As the rocks were very steep and craggy , they were an insurmountable barrier , so that the magician judged that there were but two things for it : either that the Prince retired into some cavern , or an abode of genies or fairies .
Thereupon she came out of the place where she was hid and went directly to the hollow way , which she traced till she came to the farther end , looking carefully about on all sides ; but , notwithstanding all her diligence , could perceive no opening , not so much as the iron gate which Prince Ahmed discovered , which was to be seen and opened to none but men , and only to such whose presence was agreeable to the Fairy Paribanou .
The magician , who saw it was in vain for her to search any farther , was obliged to be satisfied with the discovery she had made , and returned to give the Sultan an account .
The Sultan was very well pleased with the magician 's conduct , and said to her : `` Do you as you think fit ; I 'll wait patiently the event of your promises , '' and to encourage her made her a present of a diamond of great value .
As Prince Ahmed had obtained the Fairy Paribanou 's leave to go to the Sultan of the Indies ' Court once a month , he never failed , and the magician , knowing the time , went a day or two before to the foot of the rock where she lost sight of the Prince and his attendants , and waited there .
The next morning Prince Ahmed went out , as usual , at the iron gate , with the same attendants as before , and passed by the magician , whom he knew not to be such , and , seeing her lie with her head against the rock , and complaining as if she were in great pain , he pitied her , turned his horse about , went to her , and asked her what was the matter with her , and what he could do to ease her .
The artful sorceress looked at the Prince in a pitiful manner , without ever lifting up her head , and answered in broken words and sighs , as if she could hardly fetch her breath , that she was going to the capital city , but on the way thither she was taken with so violent a fever that her strength failed her , and she was forced to lie down where he saw her , far from any habitation , and without any hopes of assistance .
`` Good woman , '' replied Prince Ahmed , `` you are not so far from help as you imagine .
I am ready to assist you , and convey you where you will meet with a speedy cure ; only get up , and let one of my people take you behind him . ''
At these words the magician , who pretended sickness only to know where the Prince lived and what he did , refused not the charitable offer he made her , and that her actions might correspond with her words she made many pretended vain endeavors to get up .
At the same time two of the Prince 's attendants , alighting off their horses , helped her up , and set her behind another , and mounted their horses again , and followed the Prince , who turned back to the iron gate , which was opened by one of his retinue who rode before .
And when he came into the outward court of the Fairy , without dismounting himself , he sent to tell her he wanted to speak with her .
The Fairy Paribanou came with all imaginable haste , not knowing what made Prince Ahmed return so soon , who , not giving her time to ask him the reason , said : `` Princess , I desire you would have compassion on this good woman , '' pointing to the magician , who was held up by two of his retinue .
`` I found her in the condition you see her in , and promised her the assistance she stands in need of , and am persuaded that you , out of your own goodness , as well as upon my entreaty , will not abandon her . ''
The Fairy Paribanou , who had her eyes fixed upon the pretended sick woman all the time that the Prince was talking to her , ordered two of her women who followed her to take her from the two men that held her , and carry her into an apartment of the palace , and take as much care of her as she would herself .
While the two women executed the Fairy 's commands , she went up to Prince Ahmed , and , whispering in his ear , said : `` Prince , this woman is not so sick as she pretends to be ; and I am very much mistaken if she is not an impostor , who will be the cause of a great trouble to you .
But do n't be concerned , let what will be devised against you ; be persuaded that I will deliver you out of all the snares that shall be laid for you .
Go and pursue your journey . ''
This discourse of the Fairy 's did not in the least frighten Prince Ahmed .
`` My Princess , '' said he , `` as I do not remember I ever did or designed anybody an injury , I can not believe anybody can have a thought of doing me one , but if they have I shall not , nevertheless , forbear doing good whenever I have an opportunity . ''
Then he went back to his father 's palace .
In the meantime the two women carried the magician into a very fine apartment , richly furnished .
First they sat her down upon a sofa , with her back supported with a cushion of gold brocade , while they made a bed on the same sofa before her , the quilt of which was finely embroidered with silk , the sheets of the finest linen , and the coverlet cloth-of-gold .
When they had put her into bed -LRB- for the old sorceress pretended that her fever was so violent she could not help herself in the least -RRB- one of the women went out , and returned soon again with a china dish in her hand , full of a certain liquor , which she presented to the magician , while the other helped her to sit up .
`` Drink this liquor , '' said she ; `` it is the Water of the Fountain of Lions , and a sovereign remedy against all fevers whatsoever .
You will find the effect of it in less than an hour 's time . ''
The magician , to dissemble the better , took it after a great deal of entreaty ; but at last she took the china dish , and , holding back her head , swallowed down the liquor .
When she was laid down again the two women covered her up .
`` Lie quiet , '' said she who brought her the china cup , `` and get a little sleep if you can .
We 'll leave you , and hope to find you perfectly cured when we come again an hour hence . ''
The two women came again at the time they said they should , and found the magician up and dressed , and sitting upon the sofa .
`` Oh , admirable potion ! ''
she said : `` it has wrought its cure much sooner than you told me it would , and I shall be able to prosecute my journey . ''
The two women , who were fairies as well as their mistress , after they had told the magician how glad they were that she was cured so soon , walked before her , and conducted her through several apartments , all more noble than that wherein she lay , into a large hall , the most richly and magnificently furnished of all the palace .
Fairy Paribanou sat in this hall on a throne of massive gold , enriched with diamonds , rubies , and pearls of an extraordinary size , and attended on each hand by a great number of beautiful fairies , all richly clothed .
At the sight of so much majesty , the magician was not only dazzled , but was so amazed that , after she had prostrated herself before the throne , she could not open her lips to thank the Fairy as she proposed .
However , Paribanou saved her the trouble , and said to her : `` Good woman , I am glad I had an opportunity to oblige you , and to see you are able to pursue your journey .
I wo n't detain you , but perhaps you may not be displeased to see my palace ; follow my women , and they will show it you . ''
Then the magician went back and related to the Sultan of the Indies all that had happened , and how very rich Prince Ahmed was since his marriage with the Fairy , richer than all the kings in the world , and how there was danger that he should come and take the throne from his father .
Though the Sultan of the Indies was very well persuaded that Prince Ahmed 's natural disposition was good , yet he could not help being concerned at the discourse of the old sorceress , to whom , when she was taking her leave , he said : `` I thank thee for the pains thou hast taken , and thy wholesome advice .
I am so sensible of the great importance it is to me that I shall deliberate upon it in council . ''
Now the favorites advised that the Prince should be killed , but the magician advised differently : `` Make him give you all kinds of wonderful things , by the Fairy 's help , till she tires of him and sends him away .
As , for example , every time your Majesty goes into the field , you are obliged to be at a great expense , not only in pavilions and tents for your army , but likewise in mules and camels to carry their baggage .
Now , might not you engage him to use his interest with the Fairy to procure you a tent which might be carried in a man 's hand , and which should be so large as to shelter your whole army against bad weather ? ''
When the magician had finished her speech , the Sultan asked his favorites if they had anything better to propose ; and , finding them all silent , determined to follow the magician 's advice , as the most reasonable and most agreeable to his mild government .
Next day the Sultan did as the magician had advised him , and asked for the pavilion .
Prince Ahmed never expected that the Sultan his father would have asked such a thing , which at first appeared so difficult , not to say impossible .
Though he knew not absolutely how great the power of genies and fairies was , he doubted whether it extended so far as to compass such a tent as his father desired .
At last he replied : `` Though it is with the greatest reluctance imaginable , I will not fail to ask the favor of my wife your Majesty desires , but will not promise you to obtain it ; and if I should not have the honor to come again to pay you my respects that shall be the sign that I have not had success .
But beforehand , I desire you to forgive me , and consider that you yourself have reduced me to this extremity . ''
`` Son , '' replied the Sultan of the Indies , `` I should be very sorry if what I ask of you should cause me the displeasure of never seeing you more .
I find you do n't know the power a husband has over a wife ; and yours would show that her love to you was very indifferent if she , with the power she has of a fairy , should refuse you so trifling a request as this I desire you to ask of her for my sake . ''
The Prince went back , and was very sad for fear of offending the Fairy .
She kept pressing him to tell her what was the matter , and at last he said : `` Madam , you may have observed that hitherto I have been content with your love , and have never asked you any other favor .
Consider then , I conjure you , that it is not I , but the Sultan my father , who indiscreetly , or at least I think so , begs of you a pavilion large enough to shelter him , his Court , and army from the violence of the weather , and which a man may carry in his hand .
But remember it is the Sultan my father asks this favor . ''
`` Prince , '' replied the Fairy , smiling , `` I am sorry that so small a matter should disturb you , and make you so uneasy as you appeared to me . ''
Then the Fairy sent for her treasurer , to whom , when she came , she said : `` Nourgihan '' -- which was her name -- `` bring me the largest pavilion in my treasury . ''
Nourgiham returned presently with the pavilion , which she could not only hold in her hand , but in the palm of her hand when she shut her fingers , and presented it to her mistress , who gave it to Prince Ahmed to look at .
When Prince Ahmed saw the pavilion which the Fairy called the largest in her treasury , he fancied she had a mind to jest with him , and thereupon the marks of his surprise appeared presently in his countenance ; which Paribanou perceiving burst out laughing .
`` What !
Prince , '' cried she , `` do you think I jest with you ?
You 'll see presently that I am in earnest .
Nourgihan , '' said she to her treasurer , taking the tent out of Prince Ahmed 's hands , `` go and set it up , that the Prince may judge whether it may be large enough for the Sultan his father . ''
The treasurer went immediately with it out of the palace , and carried it a great way off ; and when she had set it up one end reached to the very palace ; at which time the Prince , thinking it small , found it large enough to shelter two greater armies than that of the Sultan his father 's , and then said to Paribanou : `` I ask my Princess a thousand pardons for my incredulity ; after what I have seen I believe there is nothing impossible to you . ''
`` You see , '' said the Fairy , `` that the pavilion is larger than what your father may have occasion for ; for you must know that it has one property -- that it is larger or smaller according to the army it is to cover . ''
The treasurer took down the tent again , and brought it to the Prince , who took it , and , without staying any longer than till the next day , mounted his horse , and went with the same attendants to the Sultan his father .
The Sultan , who was persuaded that there could not be any such thing as such a tent as he asked for , was in a great surprise at the Prince 's diligence .
He took the tent and after he had admired its smallness his amazement was so great that he could not recover himself .
When the tent was set up in the great plain , which we have before mentioned , he found it large enough to shelter an army twice as large as he could bring into the field .
But the Sultan was not yet satisfied .
`` Son , '' said he , `` I have already expressed to you how much I am obliged to you for the present of the tent you have procured me ; that I look upon it as the most valuable thing in all my treasury .
But you must do one thing more for me , which will be every whit as agreeable to me .
I am informed that the Fairy , your spouse , makes use of a certain water , called the Water of the Fountain of Lions , which cures all sorts of fevers , even the most dangerous , and , as I am perfectly well persuaded my health is dear to you , I do n't doubt but you will ask her for a bottle of that water for me , and bring it me as a sovereign medicine , which I may make use of when I have occasion .
Do me this other important piece of service , and thereby complete the duty of a good son toward a tender father . ''
The Prince returned and told the Fairy what his father had said ; `` There 's a great deal of wickedness in this demand ? ''
she answered , `` as you will understand by what I am going to tell you .
The Fountain of Lions is situated in the middle of a court of a great castle , the entrance into which is guarded by four fierce lions , two of which sleep alternately , while the other two are awake .
But do n't let that frighten you : I 'll give you means to pass by them without any danger . ''
The Fairy Paribanou was at that time very hard at work , and , as she had several clews of thread by her , she took up one , and , presenting it to Prince Ahmed , said : `` First take this clew of thread .
I 'll tell you presently the use of it .
In the second place , you must have two horses ; one you must ride yourself , and the other you must lead , which must be loaded with a sheep cut into four quarters , that must be killed to-day .
In the third place , you must be provided with a bottle , which I will give you , to bring the water in .
Set out early to-morrow morning , and when you have passed the iron gate throw the clew of thread before you , which will roll till it comes to the gates of the castle .
Follow it , and when it stops , as the gates will be open , you will see the four lions : the two that are awake will , by their roaring , wake the other two , but do n't be frightened , but throw each of them a quarter of mutton , and then clap spurs to your horse and ride to the fountain ; fill your bottle without alighting , and then return with the same expedition .
The lions will be so busy eating they will let you pass by them . ''
Prince Ahmed set out the next morning at the time appointed by the Fairy , and followed her directions exactly .
When he arrived at the gates of the castle he distributed the quarters of mutton among the four lions , and , passing through the midst of them bravely , got to the fountain , filled his bottle , and returned back as safe and sound as he went .
When he had gone a little distance from the castle gates he turned him about , and , perceiving two of the lions coming after him , he drew his sabre and prepared himself for defense .
But as he went forward he saw one of them turned out of the road at some distance , and showed by his head and tail that he did not come to do him any harm , but only to go before him , and that the other stayed behind to follow , he put his sword up again in its scabbard .
Guarded in this manner , he arrived at the capital of the Indies , but the lions never left him till they had conducted him to the gates of the Sultan 's palace ; after which they returned the same way they came , though not without frightening all that saw them , for all they went in a very gentle manner and showed no fierceness .
A great many officers came to attend the Prince while he dismounted his horse , and afterward conducted him into the Sultan 's apartment , who was at that time surrounded with his favorites .
He approached toward the throne , laid the bottle at the Sultan 's feet , and kissed the rich tapestry which covered his footstool , and then said : `` I have brought you , sir , the healthful water which your Majesty desired so much to keep among your other rarities in your treasury , but at the same time wish you such extraordinary health as never to have occasion to make use of it . ''
After the Prince had made an end of his compliment the Sultan placed him on his right hand , and then said to him : `` Son , I am very much obliged to you for this valuable present , as also for the great danger you have exposed yourself to upon my account -LRB- which I have been informed of by a magician who knows the Fountain of Lions -RRB- ; but do me the pleasure , '' continued he , `` to inform me by what address , or , rather , by what incredible power , you have been secured . ''
`` Sir , '' replied Prince Ahmed , `` I have no share in the compliment your Majesty is pleased to make me ; all the honor is due to the Fairy my spouse , whose good advice I followed . ''
Then he informed the Sultan what those directions were , and by the relation of this his expedition let him know how well he had behaved himself .
When he had done the Sultan , who showed outwardly all the demonstrations of great joy , but secretly became more jealous , retired into an inward apartment , where he sent for the magician .
The magician , at her arrival , saved the Sultan the trouble to tell her of the success of Prince Ahmed 's journey , which she had heard of before she came , and therefore was prepared with an infallible means , as she pretended .
This means she communicated to the Sultan who declared it the next day to the Prince , in the midst of all his courtiers , in these words : `` Son , '' said he , `` I have one thing more to ask of you , after which I shall expect nothing more from your obedience , nor your interest with your wife .
This request is , to bring me a man not above a foot and a half high , and whose beard is thirty feet long who carries a bar of iron upon his shoulders of five hundredweight , which he uses as a quarterstaff . ''
Prince Ahmed , who did not believe that there was such a man in the world as his father described , would gladly have excused himself ; but the Sultan persisted in his demand , and told him the Fairy could do more incredible things .
The next day the Prince returned to his dear Paribanou , to whom he told his father 's new demand , which , he said , he looked upon to be a thing more impossible than the two first ; `` for , '' added he , `` I can not imagine there can be such a man in the world ; without doubt , he has a mind to try whether or no I am so silly as to go about it , or he has a design on my ruin .
In short , how can he suppose that I should lay hold of a man so well armed , though he is but little ?
What arms can I make use of to reduce him to my will ?
If there are any means , I beg you will tell them , and let me come off with honor this time . ''
`` Do n't affright yourself , Prince , '' replied the Fairy ; `` you ran a risk in fetching the Water of the Fountain of Lions for your father , but there 's no danger in finding out this man , who is my brother Schaibar , but is so far from being like me , though we both had the same father , that he is of so violent a nature that nothing can prevent his giving cruel marks of his resentment for a slight offense ; yet , on the other hand , is so good as to oblige anyone in whatever they desire .
He is made exactly as the Sultan your father has described him , and has no other arms than a bar of iron of five hundred pounds weight , without which he never stirs , and which makes him respected .
I 'll send for him , and you shall judge of the truth of what I tell you ; but be sure to prepare yourself against being frightened at his extraordinary figure when you see him . ''
`` What !
my Queen , '' replied Prince Ahmed , `` do you say Schaibar is your brother ?
Let him be never so ugly or deformed I shall be so far from being frightened at the sight of him that , as our brother , I shall honor and love him . ''
The Fairy ordered a gold chafing-dish to be set with a fire in it under the porch of her palace , with a box of the same metal , which was a present to her , out of which taking a perfume , and throwing it into the fire , there arose a thick cloud of smoke .
Some moments after the Fairy said to Prince Ahmed : `` See , there comes my brother . ''
The Prince immediately perceived Schaibar coming gravely with his heavy bar on his shoulder , his long beard , which he held up before him , and a pair of thick mustachios , which he tucked behind his ears and almost covered his face ; his eyes were very small and deep-set in his head , which was far from being of the smallest size , and on his head he wore a grenadier 's cap ; besides all this , he was very much hump-backed .
If Prince Ahmed had not known that Schaibar was Paribanou 's brother , he would not have been able to have looked at him without fear , but , knowing first who he was , he stood by the Fairy without the least concern .
Schaibar , as he came forward , looked at the Prince earnestly enough to have chilled his blood in his veins , and asked Paribanou , when he first accosted her , who that man was .
To which she replied : `` He is my husband , brother .
His name is Ahmed ; he is son to the Sultan of the Indies .
The reason why I did not invite you to my wedding was I was unwilling to divert you from an expedition you were engaged in , and from which I heard with pleasure you returned victorious , and so took the liberty now to call for you . ''
At these words , Schaibar , looking on Prince Ahmed favorably , said : `` Is there anything else , sister , wherein I can serve him ?
It is enough for me that he is your husband to engage me to do for him whatever he desires . ''
`` The Sultan , his father , '' replied Paribanou , `` has a curiosity to see you , and I desire he may be your guide to the Sultan 's Court . ''
`` He needs but lead me the way I 'll follow him . ''
`` Brother , '' replied Paribanou , `` it is too late to go to-day , therefore stay till to-morrow morning ; and in the meantime I 'll inform you of all that has passed between the Sultan of the Indies and Prince Ahmed since our marriage . ''
The next morning , after Schaibar had been informed of the affair , he and Prince Ahmed set out for the Sultan 's Court .
When they arrived at the gates of the capital the people no sooner saw Schaibar but they ran and hid themselves ; and some shut up their shops and locked themselves up in their houses , while others , flying , communicated their fear to all they met , who stayed not to look behind them , but ran too ; insomuch that Schaibar and Prince Ahmed , as they went along , found the streets all desolate till they came to the palaces where the porters , instead of keeping the gates , ran away too , so that the Prince and Schaibar advanced without any obstacle to the council-hall , where the Sultan was seated on his throne , and giving audience .
Here likewise the ushers , at the approach of Schaibar , abandoned their posts , and gave them free admittance .
Schaibar went boldly and fiercely up to the throne , without waiting to be presented by Prince Ahmed , and accosted the Sultan of the Indies in these words : `` Thou hast asked for me , '' said he ; `` see , here I am ; what wouldst thou have with me ? ''
The Sultan , instead of answering him , clapped his hands before his eyes to avoid the sight of so terrible an object ; at which uncivil and rude reception Schaibar was so much provoked , after he had given him the trouble to come so far , that he instantly lifted up his iron bar and killed him before Prince Ahmed could intercede in his behalf .
All that he could do was to prevent his killing the grand vizier , who sat not far from him , representing to him that he had always given the Sultan his father good advice .
`` These are they , then , '' said Schaibar , `` who gave him bad , '' and as he pronounced these words he killed all the other viziers and flattering favorites of the Sultan who were Prince Ahmed 's enemies .
Every time he struck he killed some one or other , and none escaped but they who were not so frightened as to stand staring and gaping , and who saved themselves by flight .
When this terrible execution was over Schaibar came out of the council-hall into the midst of the courtyard with the iron bar upon his shoulder , and , looking hard at the grand vizier , who owed his life to Prince Ahmed , he said : `` I know here is a certain magician , who is a greater enemy of my brother-in-law than all these base favorites I have chastised .
Let the magician be brought to me presently . ''
The grand vizier immediately sent for her , and as soon as she was brought Schaibar said , at the time he fetched a stroke at her with his iron bar : `` Take the reward of thy pernicious counsel , and learn to feign sickness again . ''
After this he said : `` This is not yet enough ; I will use the whole town after the same manner if they do not immediately acknowledge Prince Ahmed , my brother-in-law , for their Sultan and the Sultan of the Indies . ''
Then all that were there present made the air echo again with the repeated acclamations of : `` Long life to Sultan Ahmed '' ; and immediately after he was proclaimed through the whole town .
Schaibar made him be clothed in the royal vestments , installed him on the throne , and after he had caused all to swear homage and fidelity to him went and fetched his sister Paribanou , whom he brought with all the pomp and grandeur imaginable , and made her to be owned Sultaness of the Indies .
As for Prince Ali and Princess Nouronnihar , as they had no hand in the conspiracy against Prince Ahmed and knew nothing of any , Prince Ahmed assigned them a considerable province , with its capital , where they spent the rest of their lives .
Afterwards he sent an officer to Prince Houssain to acquaint him with the change and make him an offer of which province he liked best ; but that Prince thought himself so happy in his solitude that he bade the officer return the Sultan his brother thanks for the kindness he designed him , assuring him of his submission ; and that the only favor he desired of him was to give him leave to live retired in the place he had made choice of for his retreat .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Arabian Nights .
THE HISTORY OF JACK THE GIANT-KILLER In the reign of the famous King Arthur there lived in Cornwall a lad named Jack , who was a boy of a bold temper , and took delight in hearing or reading of conjurers , giants , and fairies ; and used to listen eagerly to the deeds of the knights of King Arthur 's Round Table .
In those days there lived on St. Michael 's Mount , off Cornwall , a huge giant , eighteen feet high and nine feet round ; his fierce and savage looks were the terror of all who beheld him .
He dwelt in a gloomy cavern on the top of the mountain , and used to wade over to the mainland in search of prey ; when he would throw half a dozen oxen upon his back , and tie three times as many sheep and hogs round his waist , and march back to his own abode .
The giant had done this for many years when Jack resolved to destroy him .
Jack took a horn , a shovel , a pickaxe , his armor , and a dark lantern , and one winter 's evening he went to the mount .
There he dug a pit twenty-two feet deep and twenty broad .
He covered the top over so as to make it look like solid ground .
He then blew his horn so loudly that the giant awoke and came out of his den crying out : `` You saucy villain !
you shall pay for this I 'll broil you for my breakfast ! ''
He had just finished , when , taking one step further , he tumbled headlong into the pit , and Jack struck him a blow on the head with his pickaxe which killed him .
Jack then returned home to cheer his friends with the news .
Another giant , called Blunderbore , vowed to be revenged on Jack if ever he should have him in his power .
This giant kept an enchanted castle in the midst of a lonely wood ; and some time after the death of Cormoran Jack was passing through a wood , and being weary , sat down and went to sleep .
The giant , passing by and seeing Jack , carried him to his castle , where he locked him up in a large room , the floor of which was covered with the bodies , skulls and bones of men and women .
Soon after the giant went to fetch his brother who was likewise a giant , to take a meal off his flesh ; and Jack saw with terror through the bars of his prison the two giants approaching .
Jack , perceiving in one corner of the room a strong cord , took courage , and making a slip-knot at each end , he threw them over their heads , and tied it to the window-bars ; he then pulled till he had choked them .
When they were black in the face he slid down the rope and stabbed them to the heart .
Jack next took a great bunch of keys from the pocket of Blunderbore , and went into the castle again .
He made a strict search through all the rooms , and in one of them found three ladies tied up by the hair of their heads , and almost starved to death .
They told him that their husbands had been killed by the giants , who had then condemned them to be starved to death because they would not eat the flesh of their own dead husbands .
`` Ladies , '' said Jack , `` I have put an end to the monster and his wicked brother ; and I give you this castle and all the riches it contains , to make some amends for the dreadful pains you have felt . ''
He then very politely gave them the keys of the castle , and went further on his journey to Wales .
As Jack had but little money , he went on as fast as possible .
At length he came to a handsome house .
Jack knocked at the door , when there came forth a Welsh giant .
Jack said he was a traveler who had lost his way , on which the giant made him welcome , and let him into a room where there was a good bed to sleep in .
Jack took off his clothes quickly , but though he was weary he could not go to sleep .
Soon after this he heard the giant walking backward and forward in the next room , and saying to himself : `` Though here you lodge with me this night , You shall not see the morning light ; My club shall dash your brains out quite . ''
`` Say you so ? ''
thought Jack .
`` Are these your tricks upon travelers ?
But I hope to prove as cunning as you are . ''
Then , getting out of bed , he groped about the room , and at last found a large thick billet of wood .
He laid it in his own place in the bed , and then hid himself in a dark corner of the room .
The giant , about midnight , entered the apartment , and with his bludgeon struck many blows on the bed , in the very place where Jack had laid the log ; and then he went back to his own room , thinking he had broken all Jack 's bones .
Early in the morning Jack put a bold face upon the matter , and walked into the giant 's room to thank him for his lodging .
The giant started when he saw him , and began to stammer out : `` Oh !
dear me ; is it you ?
Pray how did you sleep last night ?
Did you hear or see anything in the dead of the night ? ''
`` Nothing to speak of , '' said Jack , carelessly ; `` a rat , I believe , gave me three or four slaps with its tail , and disturbed me a little ; but I soon went to sleep again . ''
The giant wondered more and more at this ; yet he did not answer a word , but went to bring two great bowls of hasty-pudding for their breakfast .
Jack wanted to make the giant believe that he could eat as much as himself , so he contrived to button a leathern bag inside his coat , and slip the hasty-pudding into this bag , while he seemed to put it into his mouth .
When breakfast was over he said to the giant : `` Now I will show you a fine trick .
I can cure all wounds with a touch ; I could cut off my head in one minute , and the next put it sound again on my shoulders .
You shall see an example . ''
He then took hold of the knife , ripped up the leathern bag , and all the hasty-pudding tumbled out upon the floor .
`` Ods splutter hur nails ! ''
cried the Welsh giant , who was ashamed to be outdone by such a little fellow as Jack , `` hur can do that hurself '' ; so he snatched up the knife , plunged it into his own stomach , and in a moment dropped down dead .
Jack , having hitherto been successful in all his undertakings , resolved not to be idle in future ; he therefore furnished himself with a horse , a cap of knowledge , a sword of sharpness , shoes of swiftness , and an invisible coat , the better to perform the wonderful enterprises that lay before him .
He traveled over high hills , and on the third day he came to a large and spacious forest through which his road lay .
Scarcely had he entered the forest when he beheld a monstrous giant dragging along by the hair of their heads a handsome knight and his lady .
Jack alighted from his horse , and tying him to an oak tree , put on his invisible coat , under which he carried his sword of sharpness .
When he came up to the giant he made several strokes at him , but could not reach his body , but wounded his thighs in several places ; and at length , putting both hands to his sword and aiming with all his might , he cut off both his legs .
Then Jack , setting his foot upon his neck , plunged his sword into the giant 's body , when the monster gave a groan and expired .
The knight and his lady thanked Jack for their deliverance , and invited him to their house , to receive a proper reward for his services .
`` No , '' said Jack , `` I can not be easy till I find out this monster 's habitation . ''
So , taking the knight 's directions , he mounted his horse and soon after came in sight of another giant , who was sitting on a block of timber waiting for his brother 's return .
Jack alighted from his horse , and , putting on his invisible coat , approached and aimed a blow at the giant 's head , but , missing his aim , he only cut off his nose .
On this the giant seized his club and laid about him most unmercifully .
`` Nay , '' said Jack , `` if this be the case I 'd better dispatch you ! ''
so , jumping upon the block , he stabbed him in the back , when he dropped down dead .
Jack then proceeded on his journey , and traveled over hills and dales , till arriving at the foot of a high mountain he knocked at the door of a lonely house , when an old man let him in .
When Jack was seated the hermit thus addressed him : `` My son , on the top of this mountain is an enchanted castle , kept by the giant Galligantus and a vile magician .
I lament the fate of a duke 's daughter , whom they seized as she was walking in her father 's garden , and brought hither transformed into a deer . ''
Jack promised that in the morning , at the risk of his life , he would break the enchantment ; and after a sound sleep he rose early , put on his invisible coat , and got ready for the attempt .
When he had climbed to the top of the mountain he saw two fiery griffins , but he passed between them without the least fear of danger , for they could not see him because of his invisible coat .
On the castle gate he found a golden trumpet , under which were written these lines : `` Whoever can this trumpet blow Shall cause the giant 's overthrow . ''
As soon as Jack had read this he seized the trumpet and blew a shrill blast , which made the gates fly open and the very castle itself tremble .
The giant and the conjurer now knew that their wicked course was at an end , and they stood biting their thumbs and shaking with fear .
Jack , with his sword of sharpness , soon killed the giant , and the magician was then carried away by a whirlwind ; and every knight and beautiful lady who had been changed into birds and beasts returned to their proper shapes .
The castle vanished away like smoke , and the head of the giant Galligantus was then sent to King Arthur .
The knights and ladies rested that night at the old man 's hermitage , and next day they set out for the Court .
Jack then went up to the King , and gave his Majesty an account of all his fierce battles .
Jack 's fame had now spread through the whole country , and at the King 's desire the duke gave him his daughter in marriage , to the joy of all his kingdom .
After this the King gave him a large estate , on which he and his lady lived the rest of their days in joy and contentment .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Old Chapbook .
THE BLACK BULL OF NORROWAY And many a hunting song they sung , And song of game and glee ; Then tuned to plaintive strains their tongue , `` Of Scotland 's luve and lee . ''
To wilder measures next they turn `` The Black , Black Bull of Norroway ! ''
Sudden the tapers cease to burn , The minstrels cease to play .
`` The Cout of Keeldar , '' by J. Leyden .
In Norroway , langsyne , there lived a certain lady , and she had three dochters .
The auldest o ' them said to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither did sae ; and the dochter gaed awa ' to an auld witch washerwife and telled her purpose .
The auld wife bade her stay that day , and gang and look out o ' her back door , and see what she could see .
She saw nocht the first day .
The second day she did the same , and saw nocht .
On the third day she looked again , and saw a coach-and-six coming along the road .
She ran in and telled the auld wife what she saw .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
Sae they took her into the coach , and galloped aff .
The second dochter next says to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , fur I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither did sae ; and awa ' she gaed to the auld wife , as her sister had dune .
On the third day she looked out o ' the back door , and saw a coach-and-four coming along the road .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
Sae they took her in , and aff they set .
The third dochter says to her mither : `` Mither , bake me a bannock , and roast me a collop , for I 'm gaun awa ' to seek my fortune . ''
Her mither did sae ; and awa ' she gaed to the auld witch-wife .
She bade her look out o ' her back door , and see what she could see .
She did sae ; and when she came back said she saw nocht .
The second day she did the same , and saw nocht .
The third day she looked again , and on coming back said to the auld wife she saw nocht but a muckle Black Bull coming roaring alang the road .
`` Aweel , '' quo ' the auld wife , `` yon 's for you . ''
On hearing this she was next to distracted wi ' grief and terror ; but she was lifted up and set on his back , and awa ' they went .
Aye they traveled , and on they traveled , till the lady grew faint wi ' hunger .
`` Eat out o ' my right lug , '' says the Black Bull , `` and drink out o ' my left lug , and set by your leavings . ''
Sae she did as he said , and was wonderfully refreshed .
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they came in sight o ' a very big and bonny castle .
`` Yonder we maun be this night , '' quo ' the bull ; `` for my auld brither lives yonder '' ; and presently they were at the place .
They lifted her aff his back , and took her in , and sent him away to a park for the night .
In the morning , when they brought the bull hame , they took the lady into a fine shining parlor , and gave her a beautiful apple , telling her no to break it till she was in the greatest strait ever mortal was in in the world , and that wad bring her o ` t. Again she was lifted on the bull 's back , and after she had ridden far , and farer than I can tell , they came in sight o ' a far bonnier castle , and far farther awa ' than the last .
Says the bull till her : `` Yonder we maun be the night , for my second brither lives yonder '' ; and they were at the place directly .
They lifted her down and took her in , and sent the bull to the field for the night .
In the morning they took the lady into a fine and rich room , and gave her the finest pear she had ever seen , bidding her no to break it till she was in the greatest strait ever mortal could be in , and that wad get her out o ` t. Again she was lifted and set on his back , and awa ' they went .
And lang they gaed , and sair they rade , till they came in sight o ' the far biggest castle , and far farthest aff , they had yet seen .
`` We maun be yonder the night , '' says the bull , `` for my young brither lives yonder '' ; and they were there directly .
They lifted her down , took her in , and sent the bull to the field for the night .
In the morning they took her into a room , the finest of a ' , and gied her a plum , telling her no to break it till she was in the greatest strait mortal could be in , and that wad get her out o ` t. Presently they brought hame the bull , set the lady on his back , and awa ' they went .
And aye they gaed , and on they rade , till they came to a dark and ugsome glen , where they stopped , and the lady lighted down .
Says the bull to her : `` Here ye maun stay till I gang and fight the deil .
Ye maun seat yoursel ' on that stane , and move neither hand nor fit till I come back , else I 'll never find ye again .
And if everything round about ye turns blue I hae beated the deil ; but should a ' things turn red he 'll hae conquered me . ''
She set hersel ' down on the stane , and by-and-by a ' round her turned blue .
O'ercome wi ' joy , she lifted the ae fit and crossed it owre the ither , sae glad was she that her companion was victorious .
The bull returned and sought for but never could find her .
Lang she sat , and aye she grat , till she wearied .
At last she rase and gaed awa ' , she kedna whaur till .
On she wandered till she came to a great hill o ' glass , that she tried a ' she could to climb , bat wasna able .
Round the bottom o ' the hill she gaed , sabbing and seeking a passage owre , till at last she came to a smith 's house ; and the smith promised , if she wad serve him seven years , he wad make her iron shoon , wherewi ' she could climb owre the glassy hill .
At seven years ' end she got her iron shoon , clamb the glassy hill , and chanced to come to the auld washerwife 's habitation .
There she was telled of a gallant young knight that had given in some bluidy sarks to wash , and whaever washed thae sarks was to be his wife .
The auld wife had washed till she was tired , and then she set to her dochter , and baith washed , and they washed , and they better washed , in hopes of getting the young knight ; but a ' they could do they couldna bring out a stain .
At length they set the stranger damosel to wark ; and whenever she began the stains came out pure and clean , but the auld wife made the knight believe it was her dochter had washed the sarks .
So the knight and the eldest dochter were to be married , and the stranger damosel was distracted at the thought of it , for she was deeply in love wi ' him .
So she bethought her of her apple , and breaking it , found it filled with gold and precious jewelry , the richest she had ever seen .
`` All these , '' she said to the eldest dochter , `` I will give you , on condition that you put off your marriage for ae day , and allow me to go into his room alone at night . ''
So the lady consented ; but meanwhile the auld wife had prepared a sleeping-drink , and given it to the knight , wha drank it , and never wakened till next morning .
The lee-lang night ther damosel sabbed and sang : `` Seven lang years I served for thee , The glassy hill I clamb for thee , The bluidy shirt I wrang for thee ; And wilt thou no wauken and turn to me ? ''
Next day she kentna what to do for grief .
She then brak the pear , and found it filled wi ' jewelry far richer than the contents o ' the apple .
Wi ' thae jewels she bargained for permission to be a second night in the young knight 's chamber ; but the auld wife gied him anither sleeping-drink , and he again sleepit till morning .
A ' night she kept sighing and singing as before : `` Seven lang years I served for thee , '' & c. Still he sleepit , and she nearly lost hope a ` thegither .
But that day when he was out at the hunting , somebody asked him what noise and moaning was yon they heard all last night in his bedchamber .
He said he heardna ony noise .
But they assured him there was sae ; and he resolved to keep waking that night to try what he could hear .
That being the third night , and the damosel being between hope and despair , she brak her plum , and it held far the richest jewelry of the three .
She bargained as before ; and the auld wife , as before , took in the sleeping-drink to the young knight 's chamber ; but he telled her he couldna drink it that night without sweetening .
And when she gaed awa ' for some honey to sweeten it wi ' , he poured out the drink , and sae made the auld wife think he had drunk it .
They a ' went to bed again , and the damosel began , as before , singing : `` Seven lang years I served for thee , The glassy hill I clamb for thee , The bluidy shirt I wrang for thee ; And wilt thou no wauken and turn to me ? ''
He heard , and turned to her .
And she telled him a ' that had befa'en her , and he telled her a ' that had happened to him .
And he caused the auld washerwife and her dochter to be burned .
And they were married , and he and she are living happy till this day , for aught I ken .
-LRB- 1 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- Chambers , Popular Traditions of Scotland .
THE RED ETIN There were ance twa widows that lived on a small bit o ' ground , which they rented from a farmer .
Ane of them had twa sons , and the other had ane ; and by-and-by it was time for the wife that had twa sons to send them away to seeke their fortune .
So she told her eldest son ae day to take a can and bring her water from the well , that she might bake a cake for him ; and however much or however little water he might bring , the cake would be great or sma ' accordingly ; and that cake was to be a ' that she could gie him when he went on his travels .
The lad gaed away wi ' the can to the well , and filled it wi ' water , and then came away hame again ; but the can being broken the maist part of the water had run out before he got back .
So his cake was very sma ' ; yet sma ' as it was , his mother asked if he was willing to take the half of it with her blessing , telling him that , if he chose rather to have the hale , he would only get it wi ' her curse .
The young man , thinking he might hae to travel a far way , and not knowing when or how he might get other provisions , said he would like to hae the hale cake , com of his mother 's malison what like ; so she gave him the hale cake , and her malison alang wi ` t .
Then he took his brither aside , and gave him a knife to keep till he should come back , desiring him to look at it every morning , and as lang as it continued to be clear , then he might be sure that the owner of it was well ; but if it grew dim and rusty , then for certain some ill had befallen him .
So the young man set out to seek his fortune .
And he gaed a ' that day , and a ' the next day ; and on the third day , in the afternoon , he came up to where a shepherd was sitting with a flock o ' sheep .
And he gaed up to the shepherd and asked him wha the sheep belanged to ; and the man answered : `` The Red Etin of Ireland Ance lived in Bellygan , And stole King Malcolm 's daughter , The King of fair Scotland .
He beats her , he binds her , He lays her on a band ; And every day he dings her With a bright silver wand Like Julian the Roman He 's one that fears no man .
It 's said there 's ane predestinate To be his mortal foe ; But that man is yet unborn And lang may it be so . ''
The young man then went on his journey ; and he had not gone far when he espied an old man with white locks herding a flock of swine ; and he gaed up to him and asked whose swine these were , when the man answered : `` The Red Etin of Ireland '' -- -LRB- Repeat the verses above . -RRB-
Then the young man gaed on a bit farther , and came to another very old man herding goats ; and when he asked whose goats they were , the answer was : `` The Red Etin of Ireland '' -- -LRB- Repeat the verses again . -RRB-
This old man also told him to beware of the next beasts that he should meet , for they were of a very different kind from any he had yet seen .
So the young man went on , and by-and-by he saw a multitude of very dreadfu ' beasts , ilk ane o ' them wi ' twa heads , and on every head four horns .
And he was sore frightened , and ran away from them as fast as he could ; and glad was he when he came to a castle that stood on a hillock , wi ' the door standing wide to the wa ' .
And he gaed into the castle for shelter , and there he saw an auld wife sitting beside the kitchen fire .
He asked the wife if he might stay there for the night , as he was tired wi ' a lang journey ; and the wife said he might , but it was not a good place for him to be in , as it belanged to the Red Etin , who was a very terrible beast , wi ' three heads , that spared no living man he could get hold of .
The young man would have gone away , but he was afraid of the beasts on the outside of the castle ; so he beseeched the old woman to conceal him as well as she could , and not to tell the Etin that he was there .
He thought , if he could put over the night , he might get away in the morning without meeting wi ' the beasts , and so escape .
But he had not been long in his hidy-hole before the awful Etin came in ; and nae sooner was he in than he was heard crying : `` Snouk but and snouk ben , I find the smell of an earthly man ; Be he living , or be he dead , His heart this night shall kitchen -LRB- 1 -RRB- my bread . ''
-LRB- 1 -RRB- `` Kitchen , '' that is , `` season . ''
The monster soon found the poor young man , and pulled him from his hole .
And when he had got him out he told him that if he could answer him three questions his life should be spared .
The first was : Whether Ireland or Scotland was first inhabited ?
The second was : Whether man was made for woman , or woman for man ?
The third was : Whether men or brutes were made first ?
The lad not being able to answer one of these questions , the Red Etin took a mace and knocked him on the head , and turned him into a pillar of stone .
On the morning after this happened the younger brither took out the knife to look at it , and he was grieved to find it a ' brown wi ' rust .
He told his mother that the time was now come for him to go away upon his travels also ; so she requested him to take the can to the well for water , that she might bake a cake for him .
The can being broken , he brought hame as little water as the other had done , and the cake was as little .
She asked whether he would have the hale cake wi ' her malison , or the half wi ' her blessing ; and , like his brither , he thought it best to have the hale cake , come o ' the malison what might .
So he gaed away ; and everything happened to him that had happened to his brother !
The other widow and her son heard of a ' that had happened frae a fairy , and the young man determined that he would also go upon his travels , and see if he could do anything to relieve his twa friends .
So his mother gave him a can to go to the well and bring home water , that she might bake him a cake for his journey .
And he gaed , and as he was bringing hame the water , a raven owre abune his head cried to him to look , and he would see that the water was running out .
And he was a young man of sense , and seeing the water running out , he took some clay and patched up the holes , so that he brought home enough water to bake a large cake .
When his mother put it to him to take the half-cake wi ' her blessing , he took it in preference to having the hale wi ' her malison ; and yet the half was bigger than what the other lads had got a ` thegither .
So he gaed away on his journey ; and after he had traveled a far way he met wi ' an auld woman , that asked him if he would give her a bit of his bannock .
And he said he would gladly do that , and so he gave her a piece of the bannock ; and for that she gied him a magical wand , that she said might yet be of service to him if he took care to use it rightly .
Then the auld woman , who was a fairy , told him a great deal that whould happen to him , and what he ought to do in a ' circumstances ; and after that she vanished in an instant out o ' his sight .
He gaed on a great way farther , and then he came up to the old man herding the sheep ; and when he asked whose sheep these were , the answer was : `` The Red Etin of Ireland Ance lived in Bellygan , And stole King Malcolm 's daughter , The King of fair Scotland .
He beats her , he binds her , He lays her on a band ; And every day he dings her With a bright silver wand .
Like Julian the Roman , He 's one that fears no man , But now I fear his end is near , And destiny at hand ; And you 're to be , I plainly see , The heir of all his land . ''
-LRB- Repeat the same inquiries to the man attending the swine and the man attending the goats , with the same answer in each case . -RRB-
When he came to the place where the monstrous beasts were standing , he did not stop nor run away , but went boldly through among them .
One came up roaring with open mouth to devour him , when he struck it with his wand , and laid it in an instant dead at his feet .
He soon came to the Etin 's castle , where he knocked , and was admitted .
The auld woman that sat by the fire warned him of the terrible Etin , and what had been the fate of the twa brithers ; but he was not to be daunted .
The monster soon came in , saying : `` Snouk but and snouk ben , I find the smell of an earthly man ; Be he living , or be he dead , His heart shall be kitchen to my bread . ''
He quickly espied the young man , and bade him come forth on the floor .
And then he put the three questions to him , but the young man had been told everything by the good fairy , so he was able to answer all the questions .
When the Etin found this he knew that his power was gone .
The young man then took up the axe and hewed off the monster 's three heads .
He next asked the old woman to show him where the King 's daughters lay ; and the old woman took him upstairs and opened a great many doors , and out of every door came a beautiful lady who had been imprisoned there by the Etin ; and ane o ' the ladies was the King 's daughter .
She also took him down into a low room , and there stood two stone pillars that he had only to touch wi ' his wand , when his two friends and neighbors started into life .
And the hale o ' the prisoners were overjoyed at their deliverance , which they all acknowledged to be owing to the prudent young man .
Next day they a ' set out for the King 's Court , and a gallant company they made .
And the King married his daughter to the young man that had delivered her , and gave a noble 's daughter to ilk ane o ' the other young men ; and so they a ' lived happily a ' the rest o ' their days .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Brown_Fairy_Book.txt.out
The Brown Fairy Book What the Rose did to the Cypress -LSB- 1 -RSB- Once upon a time a great king of the East , named Saman-lalposh , -LSB- 2 -RSB- had three brave and clever sons -- Tahmasp , Qamas , and Almas-ruh-baksh .
-LSB- 3 -RSB- One day , when the king was sitting in his hall of audience , his eldest son , Prince Tahmasp , came before him , and after greeting his father with due respect , said : ' O my royal father !
I am tired of the town ; if you will give me leave , I will take my servants to-morrow and will go into the country and hunt on the hill-skirts ; and when I have taken some game I will come back , at evening-prayer time . '
His father consented , and sent with him some of his own trusted servants , and also hawks , and falcons , hunting dogs , cheetahs and leopards .
At the place where the prince intended to hunt he saw a most beautiful deer .
He ordered that it should not be killed , but trapped or captured with a noose .
The deer looked about for a place where he might escape from the ring of the beaters , and spied one unwatched close to the prince himself .
It bounded high and leaped right over his head , got out of the ring , and tore like the eastern wind into the waste .
The prince put spurs to his horse and pursued it ; and was soon lost to the sight of his followers .
Until the world-lighting sun stood above his head in the zenith he did not take his eyes off the deer ; suddenly it disappeared behind some rising ground , and with all his search he could not find any further trace of it .
He was now drenched in sweat , and he breathed with pain ; and his horse 's tongue hung from its mouth with thirst .
He dismounted and toiled on , with bridle on arm , praying and casting himself on the mercy of heaven .
Then his horse fell and surrendered its life to God .
On and on he went across the sandy waste , weeping and with burning breast , till at length a hill rose into sight .
He mustered his strength and climbed to the top , and there he found a giant tree whose foot kept firm the wrinkled earth , and whose crest touched the very heaven .
Its branches had put forth a glory of leaves , and there were grass and a spring underneath it , and flowers of many colours .
Gladdened by this sight , he dragged himself to the water 's edge , drank his fill , and returned thanks for his deliverance from thirst .
He looked about him and , to his amazement , saw close by a royal seat .
While he was pondering what could have brought this into the merciless desert , a man drew near who was dressed like a faqir , and had bare head and feet , but walked with the free carriage of a person of rank .
His face was kind , and wise and thoughtful , and he came on and spoke to the prince . '
O good youth !
how did you come here ?
Who are you ?
Where do you come from ? '
The prince told everything just as it had happened to him , and then respectfully added : ' I have made known my own circumstances to you , and now I venture to beg you to tell me your own .
Who are you ?
How did you come to make your dwelling in this wilderness ? '
To this the faqir replied : ' O youth !
it would be best for you to have nothing to do with me and to know nothing of my fortunes , for my story is fit neither for telling nor for hearing . '
The prince , however , pleaded so hard to be told , that at last there was nothing to be done but to let him hear .
` Learn and know , O young man !
that I am King Janangir -LSB- 4 -RSB- of Babylon , and that once I had army and servants , family and treasure ; untold wealth and belongings .
The Most High God gave me seven sons who grew up well versed in all princely arts .
My eldest son heard from travellers that in Turkistan , on the Chinese frontier , there is a king named Quimus , the son of Timus , and that he has an only child , a daughter named Mihr-afruz , -LSB- 5 -RSB- who , under all the azure heaven , is unrivalled for beauty .
Princes come from all quarters to ask her hand , and on one and all she imposes a condition .
She says to them : `` I know a riddle ; and I will marry anyone who answers it , and will bestow on him all my possessions .
But if a suitor can not answer my question I cut off his head and hang it on the battlements of the citadel . ''
The riddle she asks is , `` What did the rose do to the cypress ? ''
` Now , when my son heard this tale , he fell in love with that unseen girl , and he came to me lamenting and bewailing himself .
Nothing that I could say had the slightest effect on him .
I said : `` Oh my son !
if there must be fruit of this fancy of yours , I will lead forth a great army against King Quimus .
If he will give you his daughter freely , well and good ; and if not , I will ravage his kingdom and bring her away by force . ''
This plan did not please him ; he said : `` It is not right to lay a kingdom waste and to destroy a palace so that I may attain my desire .
I will go alone ; I will answer the riddle , and win her in this way . ''
At last , out of pity for him , I let him go .
He reached the city of King Quimus .
He was asked the riddle and could not give the true answer ; and his head was cut off and hung upon the battlements .
Then I mourned him in black raiment for forty days .
After this another and another of my sons were seized by the same desire , and in the end all my seven sons went , and all were killed .
In grief for their death I have abandoned my throne , and I abide here in this desert , withholding my hand from all State business and wearing myself away in sorrow . '
Prince Tahmasp listened to this tale , and then the arrow of love for that unseen girl struck his heart also .
Just at this moment of his ill-fate his people came up , and gathered round him like moths round a light .
They brought him a horse , fleet as the breeze of the dawn ; he set his willing foot in the stirrup of safety and rode off .
As the days went by the thorn of love rankled in his heart , and he became the very example of lovers , and grew faint and feeble .
At last his confidants searched his heart and lifted the veil from the face of his love , and then set the matter before his father , King Saman-lal-posh .
` Your son , Prince Tahmasp , loves distractedly the Princess Mihr-afruz , daughter of King Quimus , son of Timus . '
Then they told the king all about her and her doings .
A mist of sadness clouded the king 's mind , and he said to his son : ` If this thing is so , I will in the first place send a courier with friendly letters to King Quimus , and will ask the hand of his daughter for you .
I will send an abundance of gifts , and a string of camels laden with flashing stones and rubies of Badakhsham In this way I will bring her and her suite , and I will give her to you to be your solace .
But if King Quimus is unwilling to give her to you , I will pour a whirlwind of soldiers upon him , and I will bring to you , in this way , that most consequential of girls . '
But the prince said that this plan would not be right , and that he would go himself , and would answer the riddle .
Then the king 's wise men said : ` This is a very weighty matter ; it would be best to allow the prince to set out accompanied by some persons in whom you have confidence .
Maybe he will repent and come back . '
So King Saman ordered all preparations for the journey to be made , and then Prince Tahmasp took his leave and set out , accompanied by some of the courtiers , and taking with him a string of two-humped and raven-eyed camels laden with jewels , and gold , and costly stuffs .
By stage after stage , and after many days ' journeying , he arrived at the city of King Quimus .
What did he see ?
A towering citadel whose foot kept firm the wrinkled earth , and whose battlements touched the blue heaven .
He saw hanging from its battlements many heads , but it had not the least effect upon him that these were heads of men of rank ; he listened to no advice about laying aside his fancy , but rode up to the gate and on into the heart of the city .
The place was so splendid that the eyes of the ages have never seen its like , and there , in an open square , he found a tent of crimson satin set up , and beneath it two jewelled drums with jewelled sticks .
These drums were put there so that the suitors of the princess might announce their arrival by beating on them , after which some one would come and take them to the king 's presence .
The sight of the drums stirred the fire of Prince Tahmasp 's love .
He dismounted , and moved towards them ; but his companions hurried after and begged him first to let them go and announce him to the king , and said that then , when they had put their possessions in a place of security , they would enter into the all important matter of the princess .
The prince , however , replied that he was there for one thing only ; that his first duty was to beat the drums and announce himself as a suitor , when he would be taken , as such , to the king , who would then give him proper lodgment .
So he struck upon the drums , and at once summoned an officer who took him to King Quimus .
When the king saw how very young the prince looked , and that he was still drinking of the fountain of wonder , he said : ' O youth !
leave aside this fancy which my daughter has conceived in the pride of her beauty .
No one can answer er her riddle , and she has done to death many men who had had no pleasure in life nor tasted its charms .
God forbid that your spring also should be ravaged by the autumn winds of martyrdom . '
All his urgency , however , had no effect in making the prince withdraw .
At length it was settled between them that three days should be given to pleasant hospitality and that then should follow what had to be said and done .
Then the prince went to his own quarters and was treated as became his station .
King Quimus now sent for his daughter and for her mother , Gulrukh , -LSB- 6 -RSB- and talked to them .
He said to Mibrafruz : ` Listen to me , you cruel flirt !
Why do you persist in this folly ?
Now there has come to ask your hand a prince of the east , so handsome that the very sun grows modest before the splendour of his face ; he is rich , and he has brought gold and jewels , all for you , if you will marry him .
A better husband you will not find . '
But all the arguments of father and mother were wasted , for her only answer was : ' O my father !
I have sworn to myself that I will not marry , even if a thousand years go by , unless someone answers my riddle , and that I will give myself to that man only who does answer it . '
The three days passed ; then the riddle was asked : ` What did the rose do to the cypress ? '
The prince had an eloquent tongue , which could split a hair , and without hesitation he replied to her with a verse : ` Only the Omnipotent has knowledge of secrets ; if any man says , `` I know '' do not believe him . '
Then a servant fetched in the polluted , blue-eyed headsman , who asked : ` Whose sun of life has come near its setting ? '
took the prince by the arm , placed him upon the cloth of execution , and then , all merciless and stony hearted , cut his head from his body and hung it on the battlements .
The news of the death of Prince Tahmasp plunged his father into despair and stupefaction .
He mourned for him in black raiment for forty days ; and then , a few days later , his second son , Prince Qamas , extracted from him leave to go too ; and he , also , was put to death .
One son only now remained , the brave , eloquent , happy-natured Prince Almas-ruh-bakhsh .
One day , when his father sat brooding over his lost children , Almas came before him and said : ' O father mine !
the daughter of King Quimus has done my two brothers to death ; I wish to avenge them upon her . '
These words brought his father to tears . '
O light of your father ! '
he cried , ' I have no one left but you , and now you ask me to let you go to your death . '
` Dear father ! '
pleaded the prince , ` until I have lowered the pride of that beauty , and have set her here before you , I can not settle down or indeed sit down off my feet . '
In the end he , too , got leave to go ; but he went a without a following and alone .
Like his brothers , he made the long journey to the city of Quimus the son of Timus ; like them he saw the citadel , but he saw there the heads of Tahmasp and Qamas .
He went about in the city , saw the tent and the drums , and then went out again to a village not far off .
Here he found out a very old man who had a wife 120 years old , or rather more .
Their lives were coming to their end , but they had never beheld face of child of their own .
They were glad when the prince came to their house , and they dealt with him as with a son .
He put all his belongings into their charge , and fastened his horse in their out-house .
Then he asked them not to speak of him to anyone , and to keep his affairs secret .
He exchanged his royal dress for another , and next morning , just as the sun looked forth from its eastern oratory , he went again into the city .
He turned over in his mind without ceasing how he was to find out the meaning of the riddle , and to give them a right answer , and who could help him , and how to avenge his brothers .
He wandered about the city , but heard nothing of service , for there was no one in all that land who understood the riddle of Princess Mihr-afruz .
One day he thought he would go to her own palace and see if he could learn anything there , so he went out to her garden-house .
It was a very splendid place , with a wonderful gateway , and walls like Alexander 's ramparts .
Many gate-keepers were on guard , and there was no chance of passing them .
His heart was full of bitterness , but he said to himself : ` All will be well !
it is here I shall get what I want . '
He went round outside the garden wall hoping to find a gap , and he made supplication in the Court of Supplications and prayed , ' O Holder of the hand of the helpless !
show me my way . '
While he prayed he bethought himself that he could get into the garden with a stream of inflowing water .
He looked carefully round , fearing to be seen , stripped , slid into the stream and was carried within the great walls .
There he hid himself till his loin cloth was dry .
The garden was a very Eden , with running water amongst its lawns , with flowers and the lament of doves and the jug-jug of nightingales .
It was a place to steal the senses from the brain , and he wandered about and saw the house , but there seemed to be no one there .
In the forecourt was a royal seat of polished jasper , and in the middle of the platform was a basin of purest water that flashed like a mirror .
He pleased himself with these sights for a while , and then went back to the garden and hid himself from the gardeners and passed the night .
Next morning he put on the appearance of a madman and wandered about till he came to a lawn where several pert-faced girls were amusing themselves .
On a throne , jewelled and overspread with silken stuffs , sat a girl the splendour of whose beauty lighted up the place , and whose ambergris and attar perfumed the whole air .
` That must be Mihrafruz , ' he thought , ` she is indeed lovely . '
Just then one of the attendants came to the water 's edge to fill a cup , and though the prince was in hiding , his face was reflected in the water .
When she saw this image she was frightened , and let her cup fall into the stream , and thought , ` Is it an angel , or a peri , or a man ? '
Fear and trembling took hold of her , and she screamed as women scream .
Then some of the other girls came and took her to the princess who asked : ` What is the matter , pretty one ? ' '
O princess !
I went for water , and I saw an image , and I was afraid . '
So another girl went to the water and saw the same thing , and came back with the same story .
The princess wished to see for herself ; she rose and paced to the spot with the march of a prancing peacock .
When she saw the image she said to her nurse : ` Find out who is reflected in the water , and where he lives . '
Her words reached the prince 's ear , he lifted up his head ; she saw him and beheld beauty such as she had never seen before .
She lost a hundred hearts to him , and signed to her nurse to bring him to her presence .
The prince let himself be persuaded to go with the nurse , but when the princess questioned him as to who he was and how he had got into her garden , he behaved like a man out of his mind -- sometimes smiling , sometimes crying , and saying : ' I am hungry , ` Or words misplaced and random , civil mixed with the rude .
` What a pity ! '
said the princess , ` he is mad ! '
As she liked him she said : ` He is my madman ; let no one hurt him . '
She took him to her house and told him not to go away , for that she would provide for all his wants .
The prince thought , ` It would be excellent if here , in her very house , I could get the answer to her riddle ; but I must be silent , on pain of death . '
Now in the princess 's household there was a girl called Dil-aram -LSB- 7 -RSB- ; she it was who had first seen the image of the prince .
She came to love him very much , and she spent day and night thinking how she could make her affection known to him .
One day she escaped from the princess 's notice and went to the prince , and laid her head on his feet and said : ` Heaven has bestowed on you beauty and charm .
Tell me your secret ; who are you , and how did you come here ?
I love you very much , and if you would like to leave this place I will go with you .
I have wealth equal to the treasure of the miserly Qarun . '
But the prince only made answer like a man distraught , and told her nothing .
He said to himself , ` God forbid that the veil should be taken in vain from my secret ; that would indeed disgrace me . '
So , with streaming eyes and burning breast , Dil-aram arose and went to her house and lamented and fretted .
Now whenever the princess commanded the prince 's attendance , Dil-aram , of all the girls , paid him attention and waited on him best .
The princess noticed this , and said : ' O Dil-aram !
you must take my madman into your charge and give him whatever he wants . '
This was the very thing Dilaram had prayed for .
A little later she took the prince into a private place and she made him take an oath of secrecy , and she herself took one and swore , ` By Heaven !
I will not tell your secret .
Tell me all about yourself so that I may help you to get what you want . '
The prince now recognised in her words the perfume of true love , and he made compact with her . '
O lovely girl !
I want to know what the rose did to the cypress .
Your mistress cuts off men 's heads because of this riddle ; what is at the bottom of it , and why does she do it ? '
Then Dil-aram answered : ` If you will promise to marry me and to keep me always amongst those you favour , I will tell you all I know , and I will keep watch about the riddle . ' '
O lovely girl , ' rejoined he , ` if I accomplish my purpose , so that I need no longer strive for it , I will keep my compact with you .
When I have this woman in my power and have avenged my brothers , I will make you my solace . ' '
O wealth of my life and source of my joy ! '
responded Dil-aram , ' I do not know what the rose did to the cypress ; but so much I know that the person who told Mihr-afruz about it is a negro whom she hides under her throne .
He fled here from Waq of the Caucasus -- it is there you must make inquiry ; there is no other way of getting at the truth .
` On hearing these words , the prince said to his heart , ' O my heart !
your task will yet wear away much of your life . '
He fell into long and far thought , and Dil-aram looked at him and said : ' O my life and my soul !
do not be sad .
If you would like this woman killed , I will put poison into her cup so that she will never lift her head from her drugged sleep again . ' '
O Dil-aram !
such a vengeance is not manly .
I shall not rest till I have gone to Waq of the Caucasus and have cleared up the matter . '
Then they repeated the agreement about their marriage , and bade one another goodbye .
The prince now went back to the village , and told the old man that he was setting out on a long journey , and begged him not to be anxious , and to keep safe the goods which had been entrusted to him .
The prince had not the least knowledge of the way to Waq of the Caucasus , and was cast down by the sense of his helplessness .
He was walking along by his horse 's side when there appeared before him an old man of serene countenance , dressed in green and carrying a staff , who resembled Khizr .
-LSB- 8 -RSB- The prince thanked heaven , laid the hands of reverence on his breast and salaamed .
The old man returned the greeting graciously , and asked : ` How fare you ?
Whither are you bound ?
You look like a traveller . ' '
O revered saint !
I am in this difficulty : I do not know the way to Waq of the Caucasus . '
The old man of good counsel looked at the young prince and said : ` Turn back from this dangerous undertaking .
Do not go ; choose some other task !
If you had a hundred lives you would not bring one out safe from this journey . '
But his words had no effect on the prince 's resolve .
` What object have you , ' the old man asked , ` in thus consuming your life ? ' '
I have an important piece of business to do , and only this journey makes it possible .
I must go ; I pray you , ill God 's name , tell me the way . '
When the saint saw that the prince was not to be moved , he said : ` Learn and know , O youth !
that Waq of Qaf is in the Caucasus and is a dependency of it .
In it there are jins , demons , and peris .
You must go on along this road till it forks into three ; take neither the right hand nor the left , but the middle path .
Follow this for a day and a night .
Then you will come to a column on which is a marble slab inscribed with Cufic characters .
Do what is written there ; beware of disobedience . '
Then he gave his good wishes for the journey and his blessing , and the prince kissed his feet , said good-bye , and , with thanks to the Causer of Causes , took the road .
After a day and a night he saw the column rise in silent beauty to the heavens .
Everything was as the wise old man had said it would be , and the prince , who was skilled in all tongues , read the following Cufic inscription : ' O travellers !
be it known to you that this column has been set up with its tablet to give true directions about these roads .
If a man would pass his life in ease and pleasantness , let him take the right-hand path .
If he take the left , he will have some trouble , but he will reach his goal without much delay .
Woe to him who chooses the middle path !
if he had a thousand lives he would not save one ; it is very hazardous ; it leads to the Caucasus , and is an endless road .
Beware of it ! '
The prince read and bared his head and lifted his hands in supplication to Him who has no needs , and prayed , ' O Friend of the traveller !
I , Thy servant , come to Thee for succour .
My purpose lies in the land of Qaf and my road is full of peril .
Lead me by it . '
Then he took a handful of earth and cast it on his collar , and said : ' O earth !
be thou my grave ; and O vest !
tee thou my winding-sheet ! '
Then he took the middle road and went along it , day after day , with many a silent prayer , till he saw trees rise from the weary waste of sand .
They grew in a garden , and he went up to the gate and found it a slab of beautifully worked marble , and that near it there lay sleeping , with his head on a stone , a negro whose face was so black that it made darkness round him .
His upper lip , arched like an eyebrow , curved upwards to his nostrils and his lower hung down like a camel 's .
Four millstones formed his shield , and on a box-tree close by hung his giant sword .
His loin-cloth was fashioned of twelve skins of beasts , and was bound round his waist by a chain of which each link was as big as an elephant 's thigh .
The prince approached and tied up his horse near the negro 's head .
Then he let fall the Bismillah from his lips , entered the garden and walked through it till he came to the private part , delighting in the great trees , the lovely verdure , and the flowery borders .
In the inner garden there were very many deer .
These signed to him with eye and foot to go back , for that this was enchanted ground ; but he did not understand them , and thought their pretty gestures were a welcome .
After a while he reached a palace which had a porch more splendid than Caesar 's , and was built of gold and silver bricks .
In its midst was a high seat , overlaid with fine carpets , and into it opened eight doors , each having opposite to it a marble basin .
Banishing care , Prince Almas walked on through the garden , when suddenly a window opened and a girl , who was lovely enough to make the moon writhe with jealousy , put out her head .
She lost her heart to the good looks of the prince , and sent her nurse to fetch him so that she might learn where he came from and how he had got into her private garden where even lions and wolves did not venture .
The nurse went , and was struck with amazement at the sun-like radiance of his face ; she salaamed and said : ' O youth !
welcome !
the lady of the garden calls you ; come ! '
He went with her and into a palace which was like a house in Paradise , and saw seated on the royal carpets of the throne a girl whose brilliance shamed the shining sun .
He salaamed ; she rose , took him by the hand and placed him near her . '
O young man !
who are you ?
Where do you come from ?
How did you get into this garden ? '
He told her his story from beginning to end , and Lady Latifa -LSB- 9 -RSB- replied : ` This is folly !
It will make you a vagabond of the earth , and lead you to destruction .
Come , cease such talk !
No one can go to the Caucasus .
Stay with me and be thankful , for here is a throne which you can share with me , and in my society you can enjoy my wealth .
I will do whatever you wish ; I will bring here King Qulmus and his daughter , and you can deal with them as you will . ' '
O Lady Latifa , ' he said , ' I have made a compact with heaven not to sit down off my feet till I have been to Waq of Qaf and have cleared up this matter , and have taken Mihrafruz from her father , as brave men take , and have put her in prison .
When I have done all this I will come back to you in state and with a great following , and I will marry you according to the law . '
Lady Latifa argued and urged her wishes , but in vain ; the prince was not to be moved .
Then she called to the cupbearers for new wine , for she thought that when his head was hot with it he might consent to stay .
The pure , clear wine was brought ; she filled a cup and gave to him .
He said : ' O most enchanting sweetheart !
it is the rule for the host to drink first and then the guest . '
So to make him lose his head , she drained the cup ; then filled it again and gave him .
He drank it off , and she took a lute from one of the singers and played upon it with skill which witched away the sense of all who heard .
But it was all in vain ; three days passed in such festivities , and on the fourth the prince said : ' O joy of my eyes !
I beg now that you will bid me farewell , for my way is long and the fire of your love darts flame into the harvest of my heart .
By heaven 's grace I may accomplish my purpose , and , if so , I will come back to you . '
Now she saw that she could not in any way change his resolve , she told her nurse to bring a certain casket which contained , she said , something exhilarating which would help the prince on his journey .
The box was brought , and she divided off a portion of what was within and gave it to the prince to eat .
Then , and while he was all unaware , she put forth her hand to a stick fashioned like a snake ; she said some words over it and struck him so sharply on the shoulder that he cried out ; then he made a pirouette and found that he was a deer .
When he knew what had been done to him he thought , ` All the threads of affliction are gathered together ; I have lost my last chance ! '
He tried to escape , but the magician sent for her goldsmith , who , coming , overlaid the deer-horns with gold and jewels .
The kerchief which that day she had had in her hand was then tied round its neck , and this freed it from her attentions .
The prince-deer now bounded into the garden and at once sought some way of escape .
It found none , and it joined the other deer , which soon made it their leader .
Now , although the prince had been transformed into the form of a deer , he kept his man 's heart and mind .
He said to himself , ` Thank heaven that the Lady Latifa has changed me into this shape , for at least deer are beautiful . '
He remained for some time living as a deer amongst the rest , but at length resolved that an end to such a life must be put ill some way .
He looked again for some place by which he could get out of the magic garden .
Following round the wall he reached a lower part ; he remembered the Divine Names and flung himself over , saying , ` Whatever happens is by the will of God . '
When he looked about he found that he was in the very same place he had jumped from ; there was the palace , there the garden and the deer !
Eight times he leaped over the wall and eight times found himself where he had started from ; but after the ninth leap there was a change , there was a palace and there was a garden , but the deer were gone .
Presently a girl of such moon-like beauty opened a window that the prince lost to her a hundred hearts .
She was delighted with the beautiful deer , and cried to her nurse : ` Catch it !
if you will I will give you this necklace , every pearl of which is worth a kingdom . '
The nurse coveted the pearls , but as she was three hundred years old she did not know how she could catch a deer .
However , she went down into the garden and held out some grass , but when she went near the creature ran away .
The girl watched with great excitement from the palace window , and called : ' O nurse , if you do n't catch it , I will kill you ! ' '
I am killing myself , ' shouted back the old woman .
The girl saw that nurse tottering along and went down to help , marching with the gait of a prancing peacock .
When she saw the gilded horns and the kerchief she said : ` It must be accustomed to the hand , and be some royal pet ! '
The prince had it in mind that this might be another magician who could give him some other shape , but still it seemed best to allow himself to be caught .
So he played about the girl and let her catch him by the neck .
A leash was brought , fruits were given , and it was caressed with delight .
It was taken to the palace and tied at the foot of the Lady Jamila 's raised seat , but she ordered a longer cord to be brought so that it might be able to jump up beside her .
When the nurse went to fix the cord she saw tears falling from its eyes , and that it was dejected and sorrowful ' O Lady Jamila !
this is a wonderful deer , it is crying ; I never saw a deer cry before . '
Jamila darted down like a flash of lightning , and saw that it was so .
It rubbed its head on her feet and then shook it so sadly that the girl cried for sympathy .
She patted it and said : ` Why are you sad , my heart ?
Why do you cry , my soul ?
Is it because I have caught you ?
I love you better than my own life . '
But , spite of her comforting , it cried the more .
Then Jamila said : ` Unless I am mistaken , this is the work of my wicked sister Latifa , who by magic art turns servants of God into beasts of the field . '
At these words the deer uttered sounds , and laid its head on her feet .
Then Jamila was sure it was a man , and said : ` Be comforted , I will restore you to your own shape . '
She bathed herself and ordered the deer to be bathed , put on clean raiment , called for a box which stood in an alcove , opened it and gave a portion of what was in it to the deer to eat .
Then she slipped her hand under her carpet and produced a stick to which she said something .
She struck the deer hard , it pirouetted and became Prince Almas .
The broidered kerchief and the jewels lay upon the ground .
The prince prostrated himself in thanks to heaven and Jamila , and said : ' O delicious person !
O Chinese Venus !
how shall I excuse myself for giving you so much trouble ?
With what words can I thank you ? '
Then she called for a clothes-wallet and chose out a royal dress of honour .
Her attendants dressed him in it , and brought him again before the tender-hearted lady .
She turned to him a hundred hearts , took his hand and seated him beside her , and said : ' O youth !
tell me truly who you are and where you come from , and how you fell into the power of my sister . '
Even when he was a deer the prince had much admired Jamila now he thought her a thousand times more lovely than before .
He judged that in truth alone was safety , and so told her his whole story .
Then she asked : ' O Prince Almas-ruh-bakhsh , do you still wish so much to make this journey to Waq of Qaf ?
What hope is there in it ?
The road is dangerous even near here , and this is not yet the borderland of the Caucasus .
Come , give it up !
It is a great risk , and to go is not wise .
It would be a pity for a man like you to fall into the hands of jins and demons .
Stay with me , and I will do whatever you wish . ' '
O most delicious person ! '
he answered , ` you are very generous , and the choice of my life lies in truth in your hands ; but I beg one favour of you .
If you love me , so do I too love you .
If you really love me , do not forbid me to make this journey , but help me as far as you can .
Then it may be that I shall succeed , and if I return with my purpose fulfilled I will marry you according to the law , and take you to my own country , and we will spend the rest of our lives together in pleasure and good companionship .
Help me , if you can , and give me your counsel . ' '
O very stuff of my life , ' replied Jamila ' I will give you things that are not in kings ' treasuries , and which will be of the greatest use to you .
First , there are the bow and arrows of his Reverence the Prophet Salih .
Secondly , there is the Scorpion of Solomon -LRB- on whom be peace -RRB- , which is a sword such as no king has ; steel and stone are one to it ; if you bring it down on a rock it will not be injured , and it will cleave whatever you strike .
Thirdly , there is the dagger which the sage Timus himself made ; this is most useful , and the man who wears it would not bend under seven camels ' loads .
What you have to do first is to get to the home of the Simurgh , -LSB- 10 -RSB- and to make friends with him .
If he favours you , he will take you to Waq of Qaf ; if not , you will never get there , for seven seas are on the way , and they are such seas that if all the kings of the earth , and all their wazirs , and all their wise men considered for a thousand years , they would not be able to cross them . ' '
O most delicious person !
where is the Simurgh 's home ?
How shall I get there ? ' '
O new fruit of life !
you must just do what I tell you , and you must use your eyes and your brains , for if you do n't you will find yourself at the place of the negroes , who are a bloodthirsty set ; and God forbid they should lay hands on your precious person . '
Then she took the bow and quiver of arrows , the sword , and the dagger out of a box , and the prince let fall a Bismillah , and girt them all on .
Then Jamila of the houri-face , produced two saddle-bags of ruby-red silk , one filled with roasted fowl and little cakes , and the other with stones of price .
Next she gave him a horse as swift as the breeze of the morning , and she said : ` Accept all these things from me ; ride till you come to a rising ground , at no great distance from here , where there is a spring .
It is called the Place of Gifts , and you must stay there one night .
There you will see many wild beasts -- lions , tigers , leopards , apes , and so on .
Before you get there you must capture some game .
On the long road beyond there dwells a lion-king , alla if other beasts did not fear him they would ravage the whole country and let no one pass .
The lion is a red transgressor , so when he comes rise and do him reverence ; take a cloth and rub the dust and earth from his face , then set the game you have taken before him , well cleansed , and lay the hands of respect on your breast .
When he wishes to eat , take your knife and cut pieces of the meat and set them before him with a bow .
In this way you will enfold that lion-king in perfect friendship , and he will be most useful to you , and you will be safe from molestation by the negroes .
When you go on from the Place of Gifts , be sure you do not take the right-hand road ; take the left , for the other leads by the negro castle , which is known as the Place of Clashing Swords , and where there are forty negro captains each over three thousand or four thousand more .
Their chief is Taramtaq .
-LSB- 11 -RSB- Further on than this is the home of the Simurgh . '
Having stored these things in the prince 's memory , she said : ` You will see everything happen just as I have said . '
Then she escorted him a little way ; they parted , and she went home to mourn his absence .
Prince Almas , relying on the Causer of Causes , rode on to the Place of Gifts and dismounted at the platform .
Everything happened just as Jamila had foretold ; when one or two watches of the night had passed , he saw that the open ground around him was full of such stately and splendid animals as he had never seen before .
By-and-by , they made way for a wonderfully big lion , which was eighty yards from nose to tail-tip , and was a magnificent creature .
The prince advanced and saluted it ; it proudly drooped its head and forelocks and paced to the platform .
Seventy or eighty others were with it , and now encircled it at a little distance .
It laid its right paw over its left , and the prince took the kerchief Jamila had given him for the purpose , and rubbed the dust and earth from its face ; then brought forward the game he had prepared , and crossing his hands respectfully on his breast stood waiting before it .
When it wished for food he cut off pieces of the meat and put them in its mouth .
The serving lions also came near and the prince would have stayed his hand , but the king-lion signed to him to feed them too .
This he did , laying the meat on the platform .
Then the king-lion beckoned the prince to come near and said : ` Sleep at ease ; my guards will watch . '
.
So , surrounded by the lion-guard , he slept till dawn , when the king lion said good-bye , and gave him a few of his own hairs and said : ` When you are in any difficulty , burn one of these and I will be there . '
Then it went off into the jungle .
Prince Almas immediately started ; he rode till he came to the parting of the ways .
He remembered quite well that the right-hand way was short and dangerous , but he bethought himself too that whatever was written on his forehead would happen , and took the forbidden road .
By-and-by he saw a castle , and knew from what Jamila had told him that it was the Place of Clashing Swords .
He would have liked to go back by the way ho had come , but courage forbade , and he said , ` What has been preordained from eternity will happen to me , ' and went on towards the castle .
He was thinking of tying his horse to a tree which grew near the gate when a negro came out and spied him .
` Ha ! '
said the wretch to himself , ` this is good ; Taram-taq has not eaten man-meat for a long time , and is craving for some .
I will take this creature to him . '
He took hold of the prince 's reins , and said : ` Dismount , man-child !
Come to my master .
He has wanted to eat man-meat this long time back . '
` What nonsense are you saying ? '
said the prince , and other such words .
When the negro understood that he was being abused , he cried : ` Come along !
I will put you into such a state that the birds of the air will weep for you . '
Then the prince drew the Scorpion of Solomon and struck him -- struck him on the leathern belt and shore him through so that the sword came out on the other side .
He stood upright for a little while , muttered some words , put out his hand to seize the prince , then fell in two and surrendered his life .
There was water close at hand , and the prince made his ablution , and then said : ' O my heart !
a wonderful task lies upon you . '
A second negro came out of the fort , and seeing what had been done , went back and told his chief .
Others wished to be doubled , and went out , and of every one the Scorpion of Solomon made two .
Then Taram-taq sent for a giant negro named Chil-maq , who in the day of battle was worth three hundred , and said to him : ' I shall thank you to fetch me that man . '
Chil-maq went out , tall as a tower , and bearing a shield of eight millstones , and as he walked he shouted : ` Ho !
blunder-head !
by what right do you come to our country and kill our people ?
Come !
make two of me . '
As the prince was despicable in his eyes , he tossed aside his club and rushed to grip him with his hands .
He caught him by the collar , tucked him under his arm and set off with him to Taram-taq .
But the prince drew the dagger of Timus and thrust it upwards through the giant 's armpit , for its full length .
This made Chil-maq drop him and try to pick up his club ; but when he stooped the mighty sword shore him through at the waist .
When news of his champion 's death reached Taram-taq he put himself at the head of an army of his negroes and led them forth .
Many fell before the magic sword , and the prince laboured on in spite of weakness and fatigue till he was almost worn out .
In a moment of respite from attack he struck his fire-steel and burned a hair of the king-lion ; and he had just succeeded in this when the negroes charged again and all but took him prisoner .
Suddenly from behind the distant veil of the desert appeared an army of lions led by their king .
` What brings these scourges of heaven here ? '
cried the negroes .
They came roaring up , and put fresh life into the prince .
He fought on , and when he struck on a belt the wearer fell in two , and when on a head he cleft to the waist .
Then the ten thousand mighty lions joined the fray and tore in pieces man and horse .
Taram-taq was left alone ; he would have retired into his fort , but the prince shouted : ` Whither away , accursed one ?
Are you fleeing before me ? '
At these defiant words the chief shouted back , ` Welcome , man !
Come here and I will soften you to wax beneath my club . '
Then he hurled his club at the prince 's head , but it fell harmless because the prince had quickly spurred his horse forward .
The chief , believing he had hit him , was looking down for him , when all at once he came up behind and cleft him to the waist and sent him straight to hell .
The king-lion greatly praised the dashing courage of Prince Almas .
They went together into the Castle of Clashing Swords and found it adorned and fitted in princely fashion .
In it was a daughter of Taram taq , still a child She sent a message to Prince Almas saying , ' O king of the world !
choose this slave to be your handmaid .
Keep her with you ; where you go , there she will go ! '
He sent for her and she kissed his feet and received the Mussulman faith at his hands .
He told her he was going a long journey on important business , and that when he came back he would take her and her possessions to his own country , but that for the present she must stay in the castle .
Then he made over the fort and all that was in it to the care of the lion , saying : ` Guard them , brother !
let no one lay a hand on them . '
He said goodbye , chose a fresh horse from the chief 's stable and once again took the road .
After travelling many stages and for many days , he reached a plain of marvellous beauty and refreshment .
It was carpeted with flowers -- roses , tulips , and clover ; it had lovely lawns , and amongst them running water .
This choicest place of earth filled him with wonder .
There was a tree such as he had never seen before ; its branches were alike , but it bore flowers and fruit of a thousand kinds .
Near it a reservoir had been fashioned of four sorts of stone -- touchstone , pure stone , marble , and loadstone .
In and out of it flowed water like attar .
The prince felt sure this must be the place of the Simurgh . '
he dismounted , turned his horse loose to graze , ate some of the food Jamila had given him , drank of the stream and lay down to sleep .
He was still dozing when he was aroused by the neighing and pawing of his horse .
When he could see clearly he made out a mountain-like dragon whose heavy breast crushed the stones beneath it into putty .
He remembered the Thousand Names of God and took the bow of Salih from its case and three arrows from their quiver .
He bound the dagger of Timus firmly to his waist and hung the scorpion of Solomon round his neck .
Then he set an arrow on the string and released it with such force that it went in at the monster 's eye right up to the notch .
The dragon writhed on itself , and belched forth an evil vapour , and beat the ground with its head till the earth quaked .
Then the prince took a second arrow and shot into its throat .
It drew in its breath and would have sucked the prince into its maw , but when he was within striking distance he drew his sword and , having committed himself to God , struck a mighty blow which cut the creature 's neck down to the gullet .
The foul vapour of the beast and horror at its strangeness now overcame the prince , and he fainted .
When he came to himself he found that he was drenched in the gore of the dead monster .
He rose and thanked God for his deliverance .
The nest of the Simurgh was in the wonderful tree above him , and in it were young birds ; the parents were away searching for food .
They always told the children , before they left them , not to put their heads out of the nest ; but , to-day , at the noise of the fight below , they looked down and so saw the whole affair .
By the time the dragon had been killed they were very hungry and set up a clamour for food .
The prince therefore cut up the dragon and fed them with it , bit by bit , till they had eaten the whole .
He then washed himself and lay down to rest , and he was still asleep when the Simurgh came home .
As a rule , the young birds raised a clamour of welcome when their parents came near , but on this day they were so full of dragon-meat that they had no choice , they had to go to sleep .
As they flew nearer , the old birds saw the prince lying under the tree and no sign of life in the nest .
They thought that the misfortune which for so many earlier years had befallen them had again happened and that their nestlings had disappeared .
They had never been able to find out the murderer , and now suspected the prince .
` He has eaten our children and sleeps after it ; he must die , ' said the father-bird , and flew back to the hills and clawed up a huge stone which he meant to let fall on the prince 's head .
But his mate said , ` Let us look into the nest first for to kill an innocent person would condemn us at the Day of Resurrection . '
They flew nearer , and presently the young birds woke and cried , ` Mother , what have you brought for us ? '
and they told the whole story of the fight , and of how they were alive only by the favour of the young man under the tree , and of his cutting up the dragon and of their eating it .
The mother-bird then remarked , ` Truly , father !
you were about to do a strange thing , and a terrible sin has been averted from you . '
Then the Simurgh flew off to a distance with the great stone and dropped it .
It sank down to the very middle of the earth .
Coming back , the Simurgh saw that a little sunshine fell upon the prince through the leaves , and it spread its wings and shaded him till he woke .
When he got up he salaamed to it , who returned his greeting with joy and gratitude , and caressed him and said : ' O youth , tell me true !
who are you , and where are you going ?
And how did you cross that pitiless desert where never yet foot of man had trod ? '
The prince told his story from beginning to end , and finished by saying : ` Now it is my heart 's wish that you should help me to get to Waq of the Caucasus .
Perhaps , by your favour , I shall accomplish my task and avenge my brothers . '
In reply the Simurgh . '
first blessed the deliverer of his children , and then went on : ` What you have done no child of man has ever done before ; you assuredly have a claim on all my help , for every year up till now that dragon has come here and has destroyed my nestlings , and I have never been able to find who was the murderer and to avenge myself .
By God 's grace you have removed my children 's powerful foe .
I regard you as a child of my own .
Stay with me ; I will give you everything you desire , and I will establish a city here for you , and will furnish it with every requisite ; I will give you the land of the Caucasus , and will make its princes subject to you .
Give up the journey to Waq , it is full of risk , and the jins there will certainly kill you . '
But nothing could move the prince , and seeing this the bird went on : ` Well , so be it !
When you wish to set forth you must go into the plain and take seven head of deer , and must make water-tight bags of their hides and keep their flesh in seven portions .
Seven seas lie on our way -- I will carry you over them ; but if I have not food and drink we shall fall into the sea and be drowned .
When I ask for it you must put food and water into my mouth .
So we shall make the journey safely . '
The prince did all as he was told , then they took flight ; they crossed the seven seas , and at each one the prince fed the Simurgh When they alighted on the shore of the last sea , it said : ' O my son !
there lies your road ; follow it to the city .
Take thee three feathers of mine , and , if you are in a difficulty , burn one and I will be with you in the twinkling of an eye . '
The prince walked on in solitude till he reached the city .
He went in and wandered about through all quarters , and through bazaars and lanes and squares , in the least knowing from whom he could ask information about the riddle of Mihr-afruz .
He spent seven days thinking it over in silence .
From the first day of his coming he had made friends with a young cloth-merchant , and a great liking had sprung up between them .
One day he said abruptly to his companion : ' O dear friend !
I wish you would tell me what the rose did to the cypress , and what the sense of the riddle is . '
The merchant started , and exclaimed : ` If there were not brotherly affection between us , I would cut off your head for asking me this ! '
` If you meant to kill me , ' retorted the prince , ` you would still have first to tell me what I want to know . '
When the merchant saw that the prince was in deadly earnest , he said : ` If you wish to hear the truth of the matter you must wait upon our king .
There is no other way ; no one else will tell you .
I have a well-wisher at the Court , named Farrukh-fal , -LSB- 12 -RSB- and will introduce you to him . '
` That would be excellent , ' cried the prince .
A meeting was arranged between Farrukhfal and Almas , and then the amir took him to the king 's presence and introduced him as a stranger and traveller who had come from afar to sit in the shadow of King Sinaubar .
Now the Simurgh had given the prince a diamond weighing thirty misqals , and he ordered this to the king , who at once recognised its value , and asked where it had been obtained .
` I , your slave , once had riches and state and power ; there are many such stones in my country .
On my way here I was plundered at the Castle of Clashing Swords , and I saved this one thing only , hidden in my bathing-cloth . '
In return for the diamond , King Sinaubar showered gifts of much greater value , for he remembered that it was the last possession of the prince .
He showed the utmost kindness and hospitality , and gave his wazir orders to instal the prince in the royal guest-house .
He took much pleasure in his visitor 's society ; they were together every day and spent the time most pleasantly .
Several times the king said : ` Ask me for something , that I may give it you .
` One day he so pressed to know what would pleasure the prince , that the latter said : ' I have only one wish , and that I will name to you in private . '
The king at once commanded every one to withdraw , and then Prince Almas said : ` The desire of my life is to know what the rose did to the cypress , and what meaning there is in the words . '
The king was astounded .
` In God 's name !
if anyone else had said that to me I should have cut off his head instantly . '
The prince heard this in silence , and presently so beguiled the king with pleasant talk that to kill him was impossible .
Time flew by , the king again and again begged the prince to ask some gift of him , and always received this same reply : ' I wish for your Majesty 's welfare , what more can I desire ?
` One night there was a banquet , and cupbearers carried round gold and silver cups of sparkling wine , and singers with sweetest voices contended for the prize .
The prince drank from the king 's own cup , and when his head was hot with wine he took a lute from one of the musicians and placed himself on the carpet border and sang and sang till he witched away the sense of all who listened .
Applause and compliments rang from every side .
The king filled his cup and called the prince and gave it him and said : ` Name your wish !
it is yours . '
The prince drained off the wine and answered : ' O king of the world !
learn and know that I have only one aim in life , and this is to know what the rose did to the cypress . '
` Never yet , ' replied the king , ` has any man come out from that question alive .
If this is your only wish , so be it ; I will tell you .
But I will do this on one condition only , namely , that when you have heard you will submit yourself to death . '
To this the prince agreed , and said : ' I set my foot firmly on this compact . '
The king then gave an order to an attendant ; a costly carpet overlaid with European velvet was placed near him , and a dog was led in by a golden and jewelled chain and set upon the splendid stuffs .
A band of fair girls came in and stood round it in waiting .
Then , with ill words , twelve negroes dragged in a lovely woman , fettered on hands and feet and meanly dressed , and they set her down on the bare floor .
She was extraordinarily beautiful , and shamed the glorious sun .
The king ordered a hundred stripes to be laid on her tender body ; she sighed a long sigh .
Food was called for and table-cloths were spread .
Delicate meats were set before the dog , and water given it in a royal cup of Chinese crystal .
When it had eaten its fill , its leavings were placed before the lovely woman and she was made to eat of them .
She wept and her tears were pearls ; she smiled and her lips shed roses .
Pearls and flowers were gathered up and taken to the treasury .
` Now , ' said the king , ` you have seen these things and your purpose is fulfilled . '
` Truly , ' said the prince , ' I have seen things which I have not understood ; what do they mean , and what is the story of them ?
Tell me and kill me . '
Then said the king : ` The woman you see there in chains is my wife ; she is called Gul , the Rose , and I am Sinaubar , the Cypress .
One day I was hunting and became very thirsty .
After great search I discovered a well in a place so secret that neither bird nor beast nor man could find it without labour .
I was alone , I took my turban for a rope and my cap for a bucket .
There was a good deal of water , but when I let down my rope , something caught it , and I could not in any way draw it back .
I shouted down into the well : `` O !
servant of God !
whoever you are , why do you deal unfairly with me ?
I am dying of thirst , let go !
in God 's name . ''
A cry came up in answer , `` O servant of God !
we have been in the well a long time ; in God 's name get us out ! ''
After trying a thousand schemes , I drew up two blind women .
They said they were peris , and that their king had blinded them in his anger and had left them in the well alone . '
`` Now , '' they said , `` if you will get us the cure for our blindness we will devote ourselves to your service , and will do whatever you wish . '' '
`` What is the cure for your blindness ? '' '
`` Not far from this place , '' they said , `` a cow comes up from the great sea to graze ; a little of her dung would cure us .
We should be eternally your debtors .
Do not let the cow see you , or she will assuredly kill you . ''
` With renewed strength and spirit I went to the shore .
There I watched the cow come up from the sea , graze , and go back .
Then I came out of my hiding , took a little of her dung and conveyed it to the peris .
They rubbed it on their eyes , and by the Divine might saw again .
` They thanked heaven and me , and then considered what they could do to show their gratitude to me .
`` Our peri-king , '' they said , `` has a daughter whom he keeps under his own eye and thinks the most lovely girl on earth .
In good sooth , she has not her equal !
Now we will get you into her house and you must win her heart , and if she has an inclination for another , you must drive it out and win her for yourself .
Her mother loves her so dearly that she has no ease but in her presence , and she will give her to no one in marriage .
Teach her to love you so that she can not exist without you .
But if the matter becomes known to her mother she will have you burned in the fire .
Then you must beg , as a last favour , that your body may be anointed with oil so that you may burn the more quickly and be spared torture .
If the peri-king allows this favour , we two will manage to be your anointers , and we will put an oil on you such that if you were a thousand years in the fire not a trace of burning would remain . ''
` In the end the two peris took me to the girl 's house .
I saw her sleeping daintily .
She was most lovely , and I was so amazed at the perfection of her beauty that I stood with senses lost , and did not know if she were real or a dream .
When at last I saw that she was a real girl , I returned thanks that I , the runner , had come to my goal , and that I , the seeker , had found my treasure .
` When the peri opened her eyes she asked in affright : `` Who are you ?
Have you come to steal ?
How did you get here ?
Be quick !
save yourself from this whirlpool of destruction , for the demons and peris .
who guard me will wake and seize you . ''
` But love 's arrow had struck me deep , and the girl , too , looked kindly on me .
I could not go away .
For some months I remained hidden in her house .
` We did not dare to let her mother know of our love .
Sometimes the girl was very sad and fearful lest her mother should come to know .
One day her father said to her : `` Sweetheart , for some time I have noticed that your beauty is not what it was .
How is this ?
Has sickness touched you ?
Tell me that I may seek a cure . ''
Alas !
there was now no way of concealing the mingled delight and anguish of our love ; from secret it became known .
I was put in prison and the world grew dark to my rose , bereft of her lover .
` The peri-king ordered me to be burnt , and said : `` Why have you , a man , done this perfidious thing in my house ? ''
His demons and peris .
collected amber-wood and made a pile , and would have set me on it , when I remembered the word of life which the two peris .
I had rescued had breathed into my ear , and I asked that my body might be rubbed with oil to release me the sooner from torture .
This was allowed , and those two contrived to be the anointers .
I was put into the fire and it was kept up for seven days and nights .
By the will of the Great King it left no trace upon me .
At the end of a week the pert-king ordered the ashes to be cast upon the dust-heap , and I was found alive and unharmed .
` Peris who had seen Gul consumed by her love for me now interceded with the king , and said : `` It is clear that your daughter 's fortunes are bound up with his , for the fire has not hurt him .
It is best to give him the girl , for they love one another .
He is King of Waq of Qaf , and you will find none better . ''
` To this the king agreed , and made formal marriage between Gul and me .
You now know the price I paid for this faithless creature .
O prince !
remember our compact . ' '
I remember , ' said the prince ; ` but tell me what brought Queen Gul to her present pass ? '
` One night , ' continued King Sinaubar , ' I was aroused by feeling Gul 's hands and feet , deadly cold , against my body .
I asked her where she had been to get so cold , and she said she had had to go out .
Next morning , when I went to my stable I saw that two of my horses , Windfoot and Tiger , were thin and worn out .
I reprimanded the groom and beat him .
He asked where his fault lay , and said that every night my wife took one or other of these horses and rode away , and came back only just before dawn .
A flame kindled in my heart , and I asked myself where she could go and what she could do .
I told the groom to be silent , and when next Gul took a horse from the stable to saddle another quickly and bring it to me .
That day I did not hunt , but stayed at home to follow the matter up .
I lay down as usual at night and pretended to fall asleep .
When I seemed safely off Gul got up and went to the stable as her custom was .
That night it was Tiger 's turn .
She rode off on him , and I took Windfoot and followed .
With me went that dog you see , a faithful friend who never left me .
` When I came to the foot of those hills which lie outside the city I saw Gul dismount and go towards a house which some negroes have built there .
Over against the door was a high seat , and on it lay a giant negro , before whom she salaamed .
He got up and beat her till she was marked with weals , but she uttered no complaint .
I was dumfounded , for once when I had struck her with a rose stalk she had complained and fretted for three days !
Then the negro said to her : `` How now , ugly one and shaven head !
Why are you so late , and why are you not wearing wedding garments ? ''
She answered him : `` That person did not go to sleep quickly , and he stayed at home all day , so that I was not able to adorn myself .
I came as soon as I could . ''
In a little while he called her to sit beside him ; but this was more than I could bear .
I lost control of myself and rushed upon him .
He clutched my collar and we grappled in a death struggle .
Suddenly she came behind me , caught my feet and threw me .
While he held me on the ground , she drew out my own knife and gave it to him .
I should have been killed but for that faithful dog which seized his throat and pulled him down and pinned him to the ground .
Then I got up and despatched the wretch .
There were four other negroes at the place ; three I killed and the fourth got away , and has taken refuge beneath the throne of Mihr-afruz , daughter of King Quimus .
I took Gul back to my palace , and from that time till now I have treated her as a dog is treated , and I have cared for my dog as though it were my wife .
Now you know what the rose did to the cypress ; and now you must keep compact with me . ' '
I shall keep my word , ' said the prince ; ` but may a little water be taken to the roof so that I may make my last ablution ? '
To this request the king consented .
The prince mounted to the roof , and , getting into a corner , struck his fire-steel and burned one of the Sirurgh 's feathers in the flame .
Straightway it appeared , and by the majesty of its presence made the city quake .
It took the prince on its back and soared away to the zenith .
After a time King Sinaubar said : ` That young man is a long time on the roof ; go and bring him here . '
But there was no sign of the prince upon the roof ; only , far away in the sky , the Simurgh was seen carrying him off .
When the king heard of his escape he thanked heaven that his hands were clean of this blood .
Up and up flew the Simurgh , till earth looked like an egg resting on an ocean .
At length it dropped straight down to its own place , where the kind prince was welcomed by the young birds and most hospitably entertained .
He told the whole story of the rose and the cypress , and then , laden with gifts which the Simurgh had gathered from cities far and near , he set his face for the Castle of Clashing Swords .
The king-lion came out to meet him ; he took the negro chief 's daughter -- whose name was also Gul -- in lawful marriage , and then marched with her and her possessions and her attendants to the Place of Gifts .
Here they halted for a night , and at dawn said good-bye to the king-lion and set out for Jamila 's country .
When the Lady Jamila heard that Prince Almas was near , she went out , with many a fair handmaid , to give him loving reception .
Their meeting was joyful , and they went together to the garden-palace .
Jamila summoned all her notables , and in their presence her marriage with the prince was solemnised .
A few days later she entrusted her affairs to her wazir , and made preparation to go with the prince to his own country .
Before she started she restored all the men whom her sister , Latifa , had bewitched , to their own forms , and received their blessings , and set them forward to their homes .
The wicked Latifa herself she left quite alone in her garden-house .
When all was ready they set out with all her servants and slaves , all her treasure and goods , and journeyed at ease to the city of King Quimus .
When King Quimus heard of the approach of such a great company , he sent out his wazir to give the prince honourable meeting , and to ask what had procured him the favour of the visit .
The prince sent back word that he had no thought of war , but he wrote : ` Learn and know , King Quimus , that I am here to end the crimes of your insolent daughter who has tyrannously done to death many kings and kings sons , and has hung their heads on your citadel .
I am here to give her the answer to her riddle . '
Later on he entered the city , beat boldly on the drums , and was conducted to the presence .
The king entreated him to have nothing to do with the riddle , for that no man had come out of it alive . '
O king ! '
replied the prince , ` it is to answer it that I am here ; I will not withdraw . '
Mihr-afruz was told that one man more had staked his head on her question , and that this was one who said he knew the answer .
At the request of the prince , all the officers and notables of the land were summoned to hear his reply to the princess .
All assembled , and the king and his queen Gul-rakh , and the girl and the prince were there .
The prince addressed Mihr-afruz : ` What is the question you ask ? '
` What did the rose do to the cypress ? '
she rejoined .
The prince smiled , and turned and addressed the assembly .
` You who are experienced men and versed in affairs , did you ever know or hear and see anything of this matter ? '
` No ! '
they answered , ` no one has ever known or heard or seen aught about it ; it is an empty fancy . '
` From whom , then , did the princess hear of it ?
This empty fancy it is that has done many a servant of God to death ! '
All saw the good sense of his words and showed their approval .
Then he turned to the princess : ` Tell us the truth , princess ; who told you of this thing ?
I know it hair by hair , and in and out ; but if I tell you what I know , who is there that can say I speak the truth ?
You must produce the person who can confirm my words . '
Her heart sank , for she feared that her long-kept secret was now to be noised abroad .
But she said merely : ` Explain yourself . ' '
I shall explain myself fully when you bring here the negro whom you hide beneath your throne . '
Here the king shouted in wonderment : ` Explain yourself , young man !
What negro does my daughter hide beneath her throne ? '
` That , ' said the prince , ` you will see if you order to be brought here the negro who will be found beneath the throne of the princess . '
Messengers were forthwith despatched to the garden house , and after awhile they returned bringing a negro whom they had discovered in a secret chamber underneath the throne of Mihr-afruz , dressed in a dress of honour , and surrounded with luxury .
The king was overwhelmed with astonishment , but the girl had taken heart again .
She had had time to think that perhaps the prince had heard of the presence of the negro , and knew no more .
So she said haughtily : ` Prince !
you have not answered my riddle . ' '
O most amazingly impudent person , ' cried he , ` do you not yet repent ? '
Then he turned to the people , and told them the whole story of the rose and the cypress , of King Sinaubar and Queen Gul .
When he came to the killing of the negroes , he said to the one who stood before them : ` You , too , were present . '
` That is so ; all happened as you have told it ! '
There was great rejoicing in the court and all through the country over the solving of the riddle , and because now no more kings and princes would be killed .
King Quimus made over his daughter to Prince Almas , but the latter refused to marry her , and took her as his captive .
He then asked that the heads should be removed from the battlements and given decent burial .
This was done .
He received from the king everything that belonged to Mihr-afruz ; her treasure of gold and silver ; her costly stuffs and carpets ; her household plenishing ; her horses and camels ; her servants and slaves .
Then he returned to his camp and sent for Dil-aram , who came bringing her goods and chattels , her gold and her jewels .
When all was ready , Prince Almas set out for home , taking with him Jamila , and Dil-aram and Gul , daughter of Taram-taq , and the wicked Mihr-afruz , and all the belongings of the four , packed on horses and camels , and in carts without number .
As he approached the borders of his father 's country word of his coming went before him , and all the city came forth to give him welcome .
King Saman-lal-posh -- Jessamine , wearer of rubies -- had so bewept the loss of his sons that he was now blind .
When the prince had kissed his feet and received his blessing , he took from a casket a little collyrium of Solomon , which the Simurgh had given him , and which reveals the hidden things of earth , and rubbed it on his father 's eyes .
Light came , and the king saw his son .
Mihr-afruz was brought before the king , and the prince said : ` This is the murderer of your sons ; do with her as you will . '
The king fancied that the prince might care for the girl 's beauty , and replied : ` You have humbled her ; do with her as you will . '
Upon this the prince sent for four swift and strong horses , and had the negro bound to each one of them ; then each was driven to one of the four quarters , and he tore in pieces like muslin .
This frightened Mihr-afruz horribly , for she thought the same thing might be done to herself .
She cried out to the prince : ' O Prince Almas !
what is hardest to get is most valued .
Up till now I have been subject to no man , and no man had had my love .
The many kings and kings sons who have died at my hands have died because it was their fate to die like this .
In this matter I have not sinned .
That was their fate from eternity ; and from the beginning it was predestined that my fate should be bound up with yours . '
The prince gave ear to the argument from pre-ordainment , and as she was a very lovely maiden he took her too in lawful marriage .
She and Jamila , set up house together , and Dil-aram and Gul set up theirs ; and the prince passed the rest of his life with the four in perfect happiness , and in pleasant and sociable entertainment .
Now has been told what the rose did to the cypress .
Finished , finished , finished !
Footnotes : -LSB- Footnote 1 : Translated from two Persian MSS .
in the possession of the British Museum and the India Office , and adapted , with some reservations , by Annette S. Beveridge . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 2 : Jessamine , ruby-decked . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 3 : Life-giving diamond . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 4 : World-gripper . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 5 : Love-enkindler . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 6 : Rose-cheek . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 7 : Heartsease . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 8 : Elias . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 9 : Pleasure . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 10 : Thirty-birds . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 11 : Pomp and Pride . -RSB-
-LSB- Footnote 12 : Of happy omen . -RSB-
Ball-carrier and the Bad One Far , far in the forest there were two little huts , and in each of them lived a man who was a famous hunter , his wife , and three or four children .
Now the children were forbidden to play more than a short distance from the door , as it was known that , away on the other side of the wood near the great river , there dwelt a witch who had a magic ball that she used as a means of stealing children .
Her plan was a very simple one , and had never yet failed .
When she wanted a child she just flung her ball in the direction of the child 's home , and however far off it might be , the ball was sure to reach it .
Then , as soon as the child saw it , the ball would begin rolling slowly back to the witch , just keeping a little ahead of the child , so that he always thought that he could catch it the next minute .
But he never did , and , what was more , his parents never saw him again .
Of course you must not suppose that all the fathers and mothers who had lost children made no attempts to find them , but the forest was so large , and the witch was so cunning in knowing exactly where they were going to search , that it was very easy for her to keep out of the way .
Besides , there was always the chance that the children might have been eaten by wolves , of which large herds roamed about in winter .
One day the old witch happened to want a little boy , so she threw her ball in the direction of the hunters ' huts .
A child was standing outside , shooting at a mark with his bow and arrows , but the moment he saw the ball , which was made of glass whose blues and greens and whites , all frosted over , kept changing one into the other , he flung down his bow , and stooped to pick the ball up .
But as he did so it began to roll very gently downhill .
The boy could not let it roll away , when it was so close to him , so he gave chase .
The ball seemed always within his grasp , yet he could never catch it ; it went quicker and quicker , and the boy grew more and more excited .
That time he almost touched it -- no , he missed it by a hair 's breadth !
Now , surely , if he gave a spring he could get in front of it !
He sprang forward , tripped and fell , and found himself in the witch 's house !
` Welcome !
welcome !
grandson ! '
said she ; ` get up and rest yourself , for you have had a long walk , and I am sure you must be tired ! '
So the boy sat down , and ate some food which she gave him in a bowl .
It was quite different from anything he had tasted before , and he thought it was delicious .
When he had eaten up every bit , the witch asked him if he had ever fasted .
` No , ' replied the boy , ` at least I have been obliged to sometimes , but never if there was any food to be had . '
` You will have to fast if you want the spirits to make you strong and wise , and the sooner you begin the better . '
` Very well , ' said the boy , ` what do I do first ? '
` Lie down on those buffalo skins by the door of the hut , ' answered she ; and the boy lay down , and the squirrels and little bears and the birds came and talked to him .
At the end of ten days the old woman came to him with a bowl of the same food that he had eaten before .
` Get up , my grandson , you have fasted long enough .
Have the good spirits visited you , and granted you the strength and wisdom that you desire ? '
` Some of them have come , and have given me a portion of both , ' answered the boy , ` but many have stayed away from me . '
` Then , ' said she , ` you must fast ten days more . '
So the boy lay down again on the buffalo skins , and fasted for ten days , and at the end of that time he turned his face to the wall , and fasted for twenty days longer .
At length the witch called to him , and said : ` Come and eat something , my grandson . '
At the sound of her voice the boy got up and ate the food she gave him .
When he had finished every scrap she spoke as before : ` Tell me , my grandson , have not the good spirits visited you all these many days that you have fasted ? '
` Not all , grandmother , ' answered he ; ` there are still some who keep away from me and say that I have not fasted long enough . '
` Then you must fast again , ' replied the old woman , ` and go on fasting till you receive the gifts of all the good spirits .
Not one must be missing . '
The boy said nothing , but lay down for the third time on the buffalo skins , and fasted for twenty days more .
And at the end of that time the witch thought he was dead , his face was so white and his body so still .
But when she had fed him out of the bowl he grew stronger , and soon was able to sit up .
` You have fasted a long time , ' said she , ` longer than anyone ever fasted before .
Surely the good spirits must be satisfied now ? '
` Yes , grandmother , ' answered the boy , ` they have all come , and have given me their gifts . '
This pleased the old woman so much that she brought him another basin of food , and while he was eating it she talked to him , and this is what she said : ` Far away , on the other side of the great river , is the home of the Bad One .
In his house is much gold , and what is more precious even than the gold , a little bridge , which lengthens out when the Bad One waves his hand , so that there is no river or sea that he can not cross .
Now I want that bridge and some of the gold for myself , and that is the reason that I have stolen so many boys by means of my ball .
I have tried to teach them how to gain the gifts of the good spirits , but none of them would fast long enough , and at last I had to send them away to perform simple , easy little tasks .
But you have been strong and faithful , and you can do this thing if you listen to what I tell you !
When you reach the river tie this ball to your foot , and it will take you across -- you can not manage it in any other way .
But do not be afraid ; trust to the ball , and you will be quite safe ! '
The boy took the ball and put it in a bag .
Then he made himself a club and a bow , and some arrows which would fly further than anyone else 's arrows , because of the strength the good spirits had given him .
They had also bestowed on him the power of changing his shape , and had increased the quickness of his eyes and ears so that nothing escaped him .
And in some way or other they made him understand that if he needed more help they would give it to him .
When all these things were ready the boy bade farewell to the witch and set out .
He walked through the forest for several days without seeing anyone but his friends the squirrels and the bears and the birds , but though he stopped and spoke to them all , he was careful not to let them know where he was going .
At last , after many days , he came to the river , and beyond it he noticed a small hut standing on a hill which he guessed to be the home of the Bad One .
But the stream flowed so quickly that he could not see how he was ever to cross it , and in order to test how swift the current really was , he broke a branch from a tree and threw it in .
It seemed hardly to touch the water before it was carried away , and even his magic sight could not follow it .
He could not help feeling frightened , but he hated giving up anything that he had once undertaken , and , fastening the ball on his right foot , he ventured on the river .
To his surprise he was able to stand up ; then a panic seized him , and he scrambled up the bank again .
In a minute or two he plucked up courage to go a little further into the river , but again its width frightened him , and a second time he turned back .
However , he felt rather ashamed of his cowardice , as it was quite clear that his ball could support him , and on his third trial he got safely to the other side .
Once there he replaced the ball in the bag , and looked carefully round him .
The door of the Bad One 's hut was open , and he saw that the ceiling was supported by great wooden beams , from which hung the bags of gold and the little bridge .
He saw , too , the Bad One sitting in the midst of his treasures eating his dinner , and drinking something out of a horn .
It was plain to the boy that he must invent some plan of getting the Bad One out of the way , or else he would never be able to steal the gold or the bridge .
What should he do ?
Give horrible shrieks as if he were in pain ?
But the Bad One would not care whether he were murdered or not !
Call him by his name ?
But the Bad One was very cunning , and would suspect some trick .
He must try something better than that !
Then suddenly an idea came to him , and he gave a little jump of joy .
` Oh , how stupid of me not to think of that before ! '
said he , and he wished with all his might that the Bad One should become very hungry -- so hungry that he could not wait a moment for fresh food to be brought to him .
And sure enough at that instant the Bad One called out to his servant , ` You did not bring food that would satisfy a sparrow Fetch some more at once , for I am perfectly starving . '
Then , without giving the woman time to go to the larder , he got up from his chair , and rolled , staggering from hunger , towards the kitchen .
Directly the door had closed on the Bad One the boy ran in , pulled down a bag of gold from the beam , and tucked it under his left arm .
Next he unhooked the little bridge and put it under his right .
He did not try to escape , as most boys of his age would have done , for the wisdom put into his mind by the good spirits taught him that before he could reach the river and make use of the bridge the Bad One would have tracked him by his footsteps and been upon him .
So , making himself very small and thin , he hid himself behind a pile of buffalo skins in the corner , first tearing a slit through one of them , so that he could see what was going on .
He had hardly settled himself when the servant entered the room , and , as she did so , the last bag of gold on the beam fell to the ground -- for they had begun to fall directly the boy had taken the first one .
She cried to her master that someone had stolen both the bag and the bridge , and the Bad One rushed in , mad with anger , and bade her go and seek for footsteps outside , that they might find out where the thief had gone .
In a few minutes she returned , saying that he must be in the house , as she could not see any footsteps leading to the river , and began to move all the furniture in the room , without discovering Ball Carrier .
` But he must be here somewhere , ' she said to herself , examining for the second time the pile of buffalo skins ; and Ball-Carrier , knowing that he could not possibly escape now , hastily wished that the Bad One should be unable to eat any more food at present .
` Ah , there is a slit in this one , ' cried the servant , shaking the skin ; ` and here he is . '
And she pulled out Ball-Carrier , looking so lean and small that he would hardly have made a mouthful for a sparrow .
` Was it you who took my gold and bridge ? '
asked the Bad One .
` Yes , ' answered Ball-Carrier , ` it was I who took them . '
The Bad One made a sign to the woman , who inquired where he had hidden them .
He lifted his left arm where the gold was , and she picked up a knife and scraped his skin so that no gold should be left sticking to it .
` What have you done with the bridge ? '
said she .
And he lifted his right arm , from which she took the bridge , while the Bad One looked on , well pleased .
` Be sure that he does not run away , ' chuckled he .
` Boil some water , and get him ready for cooking , while I go and invite my friends the water-demons to the feast . '
The woman seized Ball-Carrier between her finger and thumb , and was going to carry him to the kitchen , when the boy spoke : ' I am very lean and small now , ' he said , ` hardly worth the trouble of cooking ; but if you were to keep me two days , and gave me plenty of food , I should get big and fat .
As it is , your friends the water-demons would think you meant to laugh at them , when they found that I was the feast . '
` Well , perhaps you are right , ' answered the Bad One ; ' I will keep you for two days . '
And he went out to visit the water-demons .
Meanwhile the servant , whose name was Lung Woman , led him into a little shed , and chained him up to a ring in the wall .
But food was given him every hour , and at the end of two days he was as fat and big as a Christmas turkey , and could hardly move his head from one side to the other .
` He will do now , ' said the Bad One , who came constantly to see how he was getting on . '
I shall go and tell the water-demons that we expect them to dinner to-night .
Put the kettle on the fire , but be sure on no account to taste the broth . '
Lung-Woman lost no time in obeying her orders .
She built up the fire , which had got very low , filled the kettle with water , and passing a rope which hung from the ceiling through the handle , swung it over the flames .
Then she brought in Ball-Carrier , who , seeing all these preparations , wished that as long as he was in the kettle the water might not really boil , though it would hiss and bubble , and also , that the spirits would turn the water into fat .
The kettle soon began to sing and bubble , and Ball Carrier was lifted in .
Very soon the fat which was to make the sauce rose to the surface , and Ball-Carrier , who was bobbing about from one side to the other , called out that Lung-Woman had better taste the broth , as he though that some salt should be added to it .
The servant knew quite well that her master had forbidden her to do any thing of the kind , but when once the idea was put into her head , she found the smell from the kettle so delicious that she unhooked a long ladle from the wall and plunged it into the kettle .
` You will spill it all , if you stand so far off , ' said the boy ; ` why do n't you come a little nearer ? '
And as she did so he cried to the spirits to give him back his usual size and strength and to make the water scalding hot Then he gave the kettle a kick , which upset all the boiling water upon her , and jumping over her body he seized once more the gold and the bridge , picked up his club and bow and arrows , and after setting fire to the Bad One 's hut , ran down to the river , which he crossed safely by the help of the bridge .
The hut , which was made of wood , was burned to the ground before the Bad One came back with a large crowd of water-demons .
There was not a sign of anyone or anything , so he started for the river , where he saw Ball Carrier sitting quietly on the other side .
Then the Bad One knew what had happened , and after telling the water demons that there would be no feast after all , he called to Ball-Carrier , who was eating an apple . '
I know your name now , ' he said , ` and as you have ruined me , and I am not rich any more , will you take me as your servant ? '
` Yes , I will , though you have tried to kill me , ' answered Ball-Carrier , throwing the bridge across the water as he spoke .
But when the Bad One was in the midst of the stream , the boy wished it to become small ; and the Bad One fell into the water and was drowned , and the world was rid of him .
-LSB- U.S. .
Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
How Ball-carrier Finished His Task After Ball-Carrier had managed to drown the Bad One so that he could not do any more mischief , he forgot the way to his grandmother 's house , and could not find it again , though he searched everywhere .
During this time he wandered into many strange places , and had many adventures ; and one day he came to a hut where a young girl lived .
He was tired and hungry and begged her to let him in and rest , and he stayed a long while , and the girl became his wife .
One morning he saw two children playing in front of the hut , and went out to speak to them .
But as soon as they saw him they set up cries of horror and ran away .
` They are the children of my sister who has been on a long journey , ' replied his wife , ` and now that she knows you are my husband she wants to kill you . '
` Oh , well , let her try , ' replied Ball-Carrier .
` It is not the first time people have wished to do that .
And here I am still , you see ! '
` Be careful , ' said the wife , ` she is very cunning . '
But at this moment the sister-in-law came up .
` How do you do , brother-in-law ?
I have heard of you so often that I am very glad to meet you .
I am told that you are more powerful than any man on earth , and as I am powerful too , let us try which is the strongest . '
` That will be delightful , ' answered he .
` Suppose we begin with a short race , and then we will go on to other things . '
` That will suit me very well , ' replied the woman , who was a witch .
` And let us agree that the one who wins shall have the right to kill the other . '
` Oh , certainly , ' said Ball-Carrier ; ' and I do n't think we shall find a flatter course than the prairie itself -- no one knows how many miles it stretches .
We will run to the end and back again . '
This being settled they both made ready for the race , and Ball-Carrier silently begged the good spirits to help him , and not to let him fall into the hands of this wicked witch .
` When the sun touches the trunk of that tree we will start , ' said she , as they both stood side by side .
But with the first step Ball-Carrier changed himself into a wolf and for a long way kept ahead .
Then gradually he heard her creeping up behind him , and soon she was in front .
So Ball-Carrier took the shape of a pigeon and flew rapidly past her , but in a little while she was in front again and the end of the prairie was in sight . '
A crow can fly faster than a pigeon , ' thought he , and as a crow he managed to pass her and held his ground so long that he fancied she was quite beaten .
The witch began to be afraid of it too , and putting out all her strength slipped past him .
Next he put on the shape of a hawk , and in this form he reached the bounds of the prairie , he and the witch turning homewards at the moment .
Bird after bird he tried , but every time the witch gained on him and took the lead .
At length the goal was in sight , and Ball-Carrier knew that unless he could get ahead now he would be killed before his own door , under the eyes of his wife .
His eyes had grown dim from fatigue , his wings flapped wearily and hardly bore him along , while the witch seemed as fresh as ever .
What bird was there whose flight was swifter than his ?
Would not the good spirits tell him ?
Ah , of course he knew ; why had he not thought of it at first and spared himself all that fatigue ?
And the next instant a humming bird , dressed in green and blue , flashed past the woman and entered the house .
The witch came panting up , furious at having lost the race which she felt certain of winning ; and Ball-Carrier , who had by this time changed back into his own shape , struck her on the head and killed her .
For a long while Ball-Carrier was content to stay quietly at home with his wife and children , for he was tired of adventures , and only did enough hunting to supply the house with food .
But one day he happened to eat some poisonous berries that he had found in the forest , and grew so ill that he felt he was going to die .
` When I am dead do not bury me in the earth , ' he said , ` but put me over there , among that clump of trees . '
So his wife and her three children watched by him as long as he was alive , and after he was dead they took him up and laid the body on a platform of stakes which they had prepared in the grove .
And as they returned weeping to the hut they caught a glimpse of the ball rolling away down the path back to the old grandmother .
One of the sons sprang forward to stop it , for Ball-Carrier had often told them the tale of how it had helped him to cross the river , but it was too quick for him , and they had to content themselves with the war club and bow and arrows , which were put carefully away .
By-and-by some travellers came past , and the chief among them asked leave to marry Ball-Carrier 's daughter .
The mother said she must have a little time to think over it , as her daughter was still very young ; so it was settled that the man should go away for a month with his friends , and then come back to see if the girl was willing .
Now ever since Ball-Carrier 's death the family had been very poor , and often could not get enough to eat .
One morning the girl , who had had no supper and no breakfast , wandered off to look for cranberries , and though she was quite near home was astonished at noticing a large hut , which certainly had not been there when last she had come that way .
No one was about , so she ventured to peep in , and her surprise was increased at seeing , heaped up in one corner , a quantity of food of all sorts , while a little robin redbreast stood perched on a beam looking down upon her .
` It is my father , I am sure , ' she cried ; and the bird piped in answer .
From that day , whenever they wanted food they went to the hut , and though the robin could not speak , he would hop on their shoulders and let them feed him with the food they knew he liked best .
When the man came back he found the girl looking so much prettier and fatter than when he had left her , that he insisted that they should be married on the spot .
And the mother , who did not know how to get rid of him , gave in .
The husband spent all his time in hunting , and the family had never had so much meat before ; but the man , who had seen for himself how poor they were , noticed with amazement that they did not seem to care about it , or to be hungry .
` They must get food from somewhere , ' he thought , and one morning , when he pretended to be going out to hunt , he hid in a thicket to watch .
Very soon they all left the house together , and walked to the other hut , which the girl 's husband saw for the first time , as it was hid in a hollow .
He followed , and noticed that each one went up to the redbreast , and shook him by the claw ; and he then entered boldly and shook the bird 's claw too .
The whole party afterwards sat down to dinner , after which they all returned to their own hut .
The next day the husband declared that he was very ill , and could not eat anything ; but this was only a presence so that he might get what he wanted .
The family were all much distressed , and begged him to tell them what food he fancied .
` Oh !
I could not eat any food , ' he answered every time , and at each answer his voice grew fainter and fainter , till they thought he would die from weakness before their eyes .
` There must be some thing you could take , if you would only say what it is , ' implored his wife .
` No , nothing , nothing ; except , perhaps -- but of course that is impossible ! '
` No , I am sure it is not , ' replied she ; ` you shall have it , I promise -- only tell me what it is . ' '
I think -- but I could not ask you to do such a thing .
Leave me alone , and let me die quietly . '
` You shall not die , ' cried the girl , who was very fond of her husband , for he did not beat her as most girls ' husbands did .
` Whatever it is , I will manage to get it for you . '
` Well , then , I think , if I had that -- redbreast , nicely roasted , I could eat a little bit of his wing ! '
The wife started back in horror at such a request ; but the man turned his face to the wall , and took no notice , as he thought it was better to leave her to herself for a little .
Weeping and wringing her hands , the girl went down to her mother .
The brothers were very angry when they heard the story , and declared that , if any one were to die , it certainly should not be the robin .
But all that night the man seemed getting weaker and weaker , and at last , quite early , the wife crept out , and stealing to the hut , killed the bird , and brought him home to her husband .
Just as she was going to cook it her two brothers came in .
They cried out in horror at the sight , and , rushing out of the hut , declared they would never see her any more .
And the poor girl , with a heavy heart , took the body of the redbreast up to her husband .
But directly she entered the room the man told her that he felt a great deal better , and that he would rather have a piece of bear 's flesh , well boiled , than any bird , however tender .
His wife felt very miserable to think that their beloved redbreast had been sacrificed for nothing , and begged him to try a little bit .
` You felt so sure that it would do you good before , ' said she , ` that I ca n't help thinking it would quite cure you now . '
But the man only flew into a rage , and flung the bird out of the window .
Then he got up and went out .
Now all this while the ball had been rolling , rolling , rolling to the old grandmother 's hut on the other side of the world , and directly it rolled into her hut she knew that her grandson must be dead .
Without wasting any time she took a fox skin and tied it round her forehead , and fastened another round her waist , as witches always do when they leave their own homes .
When she was ready she said to the ball : ` Go back the way you came , and lead me to my grandson . '
And the ball started with the old woman following .
It was a long journey , even for a witch , but , like other things , it ended at last ; and the old woman stood before the platform of stakes , where the body of Ball-Carrier lay .
` Wake up , my grandson , it is time to go home , ' the witch said .
And Ball-Carrier stepped down oft the platform , and brought his club and bow and arrows out of the hut , and set out , for the other side of the world , behind the old woman .
When they reached the hut where Ball-Carrier had fasted so many years ago , the old woman spoke for the first time since they had started on their way .
` My grandson , did you ever manage to get that gold from the Bad One ? '
` Yes , grandmother , I got it . '
` Where is it ? '
she asked .
` Here , in my left arm-pit , ' answered he .
So she picked up a knife and scraped away all the gold which had stuck to his skin , and which had been sticking there ever since he first stole it .
After she had finished she asked again : ` My grandson , did you manage to get that bridge from the Bad One ? '
` Yes , grandmother , I got that too , ' answered he .
` Where is it ? '
she asked , and Ball-Carrier lifted his right arm , and pointed to his arm-pit .
` Here is the bridge , grandmother , ' said he .
Then the witch did something that nobody in the world could have guessed that she would do .
First , she took the gold and said to Ball-carrier : ` My grandson , this gold must be hidden in the earth , for if people think they can get it when they choose , they will become lazy and stupid .
But if we take it and bury it in different parts of the world they will have to work for it if they want it , and then will only find a little at a time . '
And as she spoke , she pulled up one of the poles of the hut , and Ball-Carrier saw that underneath was a deep , deep hole , which seemed to have no bottom .
Down this hole she poured all the gold , and when it was out of sight it ran about all over the world , where people that dig hard sometimes find it .
And after that was done she put the pole back again .
Next she lifted down a spade from a high shelf , where it had grown quite rusty , and dug a very small hole on the opposite side of the hut -- very small , but very deep .
` Give me the bridge , ' said she , ` for I am going to bury it here .
If anyone was to get hold of it , and find that they could cross rivers and seas without any trouble , they would never discover how to cross them for themselves .
I am a witch , and if I had chosen I could easily have cast my spells over the Bad One , and have made him deliver them to you the first day you came into my hut .
But then you would never have fasted , and never have planned how to get what you wanted , and never have known the good spirits , and would have been fat and idle to the end of your days .
And now go ; in that hut , which you can just see far away , live your father and mother , who are old people now , and need a son to hunt for them .
You have done what you were set to do , and I need you no more . '
Then Ball-Carrier remembered his parents and went back to them .
-LSB- From Bureau of Ethnology .
` Indian Folklore . ' -RSB-
The Bunyip Long , long ago , far , far away on the other side of the world , some young men left the camp where they lived to get some food for their wives and children .
The sun was hot , but they liked heat , and as they went they ran races and tried who could hurl his spear the farthest , or was cleverest in throwing a strange weapon called a boomerang , which always returns to the thrower .
They did not get on very fast at this rate , but presently they reached a flat place that in time of flood was full of water , but was now , in the height of summer , only a set of pools , each surrounded with a fringe of plants , with bulrushes standing in the inside of all .
In that country the people are fond of the roots of bulrushes , which they think as good as onions , and one of the young men said that they had better collect some of the roots and carry them back to the camp .
It did not take them long to weave the tops of the willows into a basket , and they were just going to wade into the water and pull up the bulrush roots when a youth suddenly called out : ` After all , why should we waste our time in doing work that is only fit for women and children ?
Let them come and get the roots for themselves ; but we will fish for eels and anything else we can get . '
This delighted the rest of the party , and they all began to arrange their fishing lines , made from the bark of the yellow mimosa , and to search for bait for their hooks .
Most of them used worms , but one , who had put a piece of raw meat for dinner into his skin wallet , cut off a little bit and baited his line with it , unseen by his companions .
For a long time they cast patiently , without receiving a single bite ; the sun had grown low in the sky , and it seemed as if they would have to go home empty-handed , not even with a basket of roots to show ; when the youth , who had baited his hook with raw meat , suddenly saw his line disappear under the water .
Something , a very heavy fish he supposed , was pulling so hard that he could hardly keep his feet , and for a few minutes it seemed either as if he must let go or be dragged into the pool .
He cried to his friends to help him , and at last , trembling with fright at what they were going to see , they managed between them to land on the bank a creature that was neither a calf nor a seal , but something of both , with a long , broad tail .
They looked at each other with horror , cold shivers running down their spines ; for though they had never beheld it , there was not a man amongst them who did not know what it was -- the cub of the awful Bunyip !
All of a sudden the silence was broken by a low wail , answered by another from the other side of the pool , as the mother rose up from her den and came towards them , rage flashing from her horrible yellow eyes .
` Let it go !
let it go ! '
whispered the young men to each other ; but the captor declared that he had caught it , and was going to keep it .
` He had promised his sweetheart , ' he said , ` that he would bring back enough meat for her father 's house to feast on for three days , and though they could not eat the little Bunyip , her brothers and sisters should have it to play with . '
So , flinging his spear at the mother to keep her back , he threw the little Bunyip on to his shoulders , and set out for the camp , never heeding the poor mother 's cries of distress .
By this time it was getting near sunset , and the plain was in shadow , though the tops of the mountains were still quite bright .
The youths had all ceased to be afraid , when they were startled by a low rushing sound behind them , and , looking round , saw that the pool was slowly rising , and the spot where they had landed the Bunyip was quite covered .
` What could it be ? '
they asked one of another ; ` there was not a cloud in the sky , yet the water had risen higher already than they had ever known it do before . '
For an instant they stood watching as if they were frozen , then they turned and ran with all their might , the man with the Bunyip running faster than all .
When he reached a high peak over-looking all the plain he stopped to take breath , and turned to see if he was safe yet .
Safe !
why only the tops of the trees remained above that sea of water , and these were fast disappearing .
They must run fast indeed if they were to escape .
So on they flew , scarcely feeling the ground as they went , till they flung themselves on the ground before the holes scooped out of the earth where they had all been born .
The old men were sitting in front , the children were playing , and the women chattering together , when the little Bunyip fell into their midst , and there was scarcely a child among them who did not know that something terrible was upon them .
` The water !
the water ! '
gasped one of the young men ; and there it was , slowly but steadily mounting the ridge itself .
Parents and children clung together , as if by that means they could drive back the advancing flood ; and the youth who had caused all this terrible catastrophe , seized his sweetheart , and cried : ' I will climb with you to the top of that tree , and there no waters can reach us . '
But , as he spoke , something cold touched him , and quickly he glanced down at his feet .
Then with a shudder he saw that they were feet no longer , but bird 's claws .
He looked at the girl he was clasping , and beheld a great black bird standing at his side ; he turned to his friends , but a flock of great awkward flapping creatures stood in their place He put up his hands to cover his face , but they were no more hands , only the ends of wings ; and when he tried to speak , a noise such as he had never heard before seemed to come from his throat , which had suddenly become narrow and slender .
Already the water had risen to his waist , and he found himself sitting easily upon it , while its surface reflected back the image of a black swan , one of many .
Never again did the swans become men ; but they are still different from other swans , for in the night-time those who listen can hear them talk in a language that is certainly not swan 's language ; and there are even sounds of laughing and talking , unlike any noise made by the swans whom we know .
The little Bunyip was carried home by its mother , and after that the waters sank back to their own channels .
The side of the pool where she lives is always shunned by everyone , as nobody knows when she may suddenly put out her head and draw him into her mighty jaws .
But people say that underneath the black waters of the pool she has a house filled with beautiful things , such as mortals who dwell on the earth have no idea of .
Though how they know I can not tell you , as nobody has ever seen it .
-LSB- From Journal of Anthropological-Institute . -RSB-
Father Grumbler Once upon a time there lived a man who had nearly as many children as there were sparrows in the garden .
He had to work very hard all day to get them enough to eat , and was often tired and cross , and abused everything and everybody , so that people called him ` Father Grumbler . '
By-and-by he grew weary of always working , and on Sundays he lay a long while in bed , instead of going to church .
Then after a time he found it dull to sit so many hours by himself , thinking of nothing but how to pay the rent that was owing , and as the tavern across the road looked bright and cheerful , he walked in one day and sat down with his friends .
` It was just to chase away Care , ' he said ; but when he came out , hours and hours after , Care came out with him .
Father Grumbler entered his house feeling more dismal than when he left it , for he knew that he had wasted both his time and his money . '
I will go and see the Holy Man in the cave near the well , ' he said to himself , ` and perhaps he can tell me why all the luck is for other people , and only misfortunes happen to me . '
And he set out at once for the cave .
It was a long way off , and the road led over mountains and through valleys ; but at last he reached the cave where the Holy Man dwelt , and knocked at the door .
` Who is there ? '
asked a voice from within .
` It is I , Holy Man , Father Grumbler , you know , who has as many children as sparrows in the garden . '
` Well , and what is it that you want ? ' '
I want to know why other people have all the luck , and only misfortunes happen to me ! '
The Holy Man did not answer , but went into an inner cave , from which he came out bearing something in his hand .
` Do you see this basket ? '
said he .
` It is a magical basket , and if you are hungry you have only got to say : `` Little basket , little basket , do your duty , '' and you will eat the best dinner you ever had in your life .
But when you have had enough , be sure you do n't forget to cry out : `` That will do for to-day . ''
Oh !
-- and one thing more -- you need not show it to everybody and declare that I have give it to you .
Do you understand ? '
Father Grumbler was always accustomed to think of himself as so unlucky that he did not know whether the Holy Man was not playing a trick upon him ; but he took the basket without being polite enough to say either ` Thank you , ' or ` Good-morning , ' and went away .
However , he only waited till he was out of sight of the cave before he stooped down and whispered : ` Little basket , little basket , do your duty . '
Now the basket had a lid , so that he could not see what was inside , but he heard quite clearly strange noises , as if a sort of scuffling was going on .
Then the lid burst open , and a quantity of delicious little white rolls came tumbling out one after the other , followed by a stream of small fishes all ready cooked .
What a quantity there were to be sure !
The whole road was covered with them , and the banks on each side were beginning to disappear .
Father Grumbler felt quite frightened at the torrent , but at last he remembered what the Holy Man had told him , and cried at the top of his voice : ` Enough !
enough !
That will do for to-day ! '
And the lid of the basket closed with a snap .
Father Grumbler sighed with relief and happiness as he looked around him , and sitting down on a heap of stones , he ate till he could eat no more .
Trout , salmon , turbot , soles , and a hundred other fishes whose names he did not know , lay boiled , fried , and grilled within reach of his hands .
As the Holy Man had said , he had never eaten such a dinner ; still , when he had done , he shook his head , and grumbled ; ` Yes , there is plenty to eat , of course , but it only makes me thirsty , and there is not a drop to drink anywhere . '
Yet , somehow , he could never tell why , he looked up and saw the tavern in front of him , which he thought was miles , and miles , and miles away .
` Bring the best wine you have got , and two glasses , good mother , ' he said as he entered , ` and if you are fond of fish there is enough here to feed the house .
Only there is no need to chatter about it all over the place .
You understand ?
Eh ? '
And without waiting for an answer he whispered to the basket : ` Little basket , little basket , do your duty . '
The innkeeper and his wife thought that their customer had gone suddenly mad , and watched him closely , ready to spring on him if he became violent ; but both instinctively jumped backwards , nearly into the fire , as rolls and fishes of every kind came tumbling out of the basket , covering the tables and chairs and the floor , and even overflowing into the street .
` Be quick , be quick , and pick them up , ' cried the man .
` And if these are not enough , there are plenty more to be had for the asking . '
The innkeeper and his wife did not need telling twice .
Down they went on their knees and gathered up everything they could lay hands on .
But busy though they seemed , they found time to whisper to each other : ` If we can only get hold of that basket it will make our fortune ! '
So they began by inviting Father Grumbler to sit down to the table , and brought out the best wine in the cellar , hoping it might loosen his tongue .
But Father Grumbler was wiser than they gave him credit for , and though they tried in all manner of ways to find out who had given him the basket , he put them off , and kept his secret to himself .
Unluckily , though he did not SPEAK , he did drink , and it was not long before he fell fast asleep .
Then the woman fetched from her kitchen a basket , so like the magic one that no one , without looking very closely , could tell the difference , and placed it in Father Grumbler 's hand , while she hid the other carefully away .
It was dinner time when the man awoke , and , jumping up hastily , he set out for home , where he found all the children gathered round a basin of thin soup , and pushing their wooden bowls forward , hoping to have the first spoonful .
Their father burst into the midst of them , bearing his basket , and crying : ` Do n't spoil your appetites , children , with that stuff .
Do you see this basket ?
Well , I have only got to say , `` Little basket , little basket , do your duty , '' and you will see what will happen .
Now you shall say it instead of me , for a treat . '
The children , wondering and delighted , repeated the words , but nothing happened .
Again and again they tried , but the basket was only a basket , with a few scales of fish sticking to the bottom , for the innkeeper 's wife had taken it to market the day before .
` What is the matter with the thing ? '
cried the father at last , snatching the basket from them , and turning it all over , grumbling and swearing while he did so , under the eyes of his astonished wife and children , who did not know whether to cry or to laugh .
` It certainly smells of fish , ' he said , and then he stopped , for a sudden thought had come to him .
` Suppose it is not mine at all ; supposing -- Ah , the scoundrels ! '
And without listening to his wife and children , who were frightened at his strange conduct and begged him to stay at home , he ran across to the tavern and burst open the door .
` Can I do anything for you , Father Grumbler ? '
asked the innkeeper 's wife in her softest voice . '
I have taken the wrong basket -- by mistake , of course , ' said he .
` Here is yours , will you give me back my own ? '
` Why , what are you talking about ? '
answered she .
` You can see for yourself that there is no basket here . '
And though Father Grumbler DID look , it was quite true that none was to be seen .
` Come , take a glass to warm you this cold day , ' said the woman , who was anxious to keep him in a good temper , and as this was an invitation Father Grumbler never refused , he tossed it off and left the house .
He took the road that led to the Holy Man 's cave , and made such haste that it was not long before he reached it .
` Who is there ? '
said a voice in answer to his knock .
` It is me , it is me , Holy man .
You know quite well .
Father Grumbler , who has as many children as sparrows in the garden . '
` But , my good man , it was only yesterday that I gave you a handsome present . '
` Yes , Holy Man , and here it is .
But something has happened , I do n't know what , and it wo n't work any more . '
` Well , put it down .
I will go and see if I can find anything for you . '
In a few minutes the Holy Man returned with a cock under his arm .
` Listen to me , ' he said , ` whenever you want money , you only have to say : `` Show me what you can do , cock , '' and you will see some wonderful things .
But , remember , it is not necessary to let all the world into the secret . '
` Oh no , Holy Man , I am not so foolish as that . '
` Nor to tell everybody that I gave it to you , ' went on the Holy Man . '
I have not got these treasures by the dozen . '
And without waiting for an answer he shut the door .
As before , the distance seemed to have wonderfully shortened , and in a moment the tavern rose up in front of Father Grumbler .
Without stopping to think , he went straight in , and found the innkeeper 's wife in the kitchen making a cake .
` Where have you come from , with that fine red cock in your basket , ' asked she , for the bird was so big that the lid would not shut down properly .
` Oh , I come from a place where they do n't keep these things by the dozen , ' he replied , sitting down in front of the table .
The woman said no more , but set before him a bottle of his favourite wine , and soon he began to wish to display his prize .
` Show me what you can do , cock , ' cried he .
And the cock stood up and flapped his wings three times , crowing ` coquerico ' with a voice like a trumpet , and at each crow there fell from his beak golden drops , and diamonds as large as peas .
This time Father Grumbler did not invite the innkeeper 's wife to pick up his treasures , but put his own hat under the cock 's beak , so as to catch everything he let fall ; and he did not see the husband and wife exchanging glances with each other which said , ` That would be a splendid cock to put with our basket . '
` Have another glass of wine ? '
suggested the innkeeper , when they had finished admiring the beauty of the cock , for they pretended not to have seen the gold or the diamonds .
And Father Grumbler , nothing loth , drank one glass after another , till his head fell forward on the table , and once more he was sound asleep .
Then the woman gently coaxed the cock from the basket and carried it off to her own poultry yard , from which she brought one exactly like it , and popped it in its place .
Night was falling when the man awoke , and throwing proudly some grains of gold on the table to pay for the wine he had drunk , he tucked the cock comfortably into his basket and set out for home .
His wife and all the children were waiting for him at the door , and as soon as she caught sight of him she broke out : ` You are a nice man to go wasting your time and your money drinking in that tavern , and leaving us to starve !
Are n't you ashamed of yourself ? '
` You do n't know what you are talking of , ' he answered .
` Money ?
Why , I have gold and diamonds now , as much as I want .
Do you see that cock ?
Well , you have only to say to him , `` Show me what you can do , cock , '' and something splendid will happen . '
Neither wife nor children were inclined to put much faith in him after their last experience ; however , they thought it was worth trying , and did as he told them .
The cock flew round the room like a mad thing , and crowed till their heads nearly split with the noise ; but no gold or diamonds dropped on the brick floor -- not the tiniest grain of either .
Father Grumbler stared in silence for an instant , and then he began to swear so loudly that even his family , accustomed as they were to his language , wondered at him .
At last he grew a little quieter , but remained as puzzled as ever .
` Can I have forgotten the words ?
But I KNOW that was what he said !
And I saw the diamonds with my own eyes ! '
Then suddenly he seized the cock , shut it into the basket , and rushed out of the house .
His heavy wooden shoes clattered as he ran along the road , and he made such haste that the stars were only just beginning to come out when he reached the cave of the Holy Man .
` Who is that knocking ? '
asked a voice from within .
` It is me !
It is me !
Holy Man !
you know !
Father -- ' ` But , my good fellow , you really should give some one else a chance .
This is the third time you have been -- and at such an hour , too ! '
` Oh , yes , Holy Man , I know it is very late , but you will forgive me !
It is your cock -- there is something the matter .
It is like the basket .
Look ! '
` THAT my cock ?
THAT my basket ?
Somebody has played you a trick , my good man ! ' '
A trick ? '
repeated Father Grumbler , who began to understand what had happened .
` Then it must have been those two -- ' ' I warned you not to show them to anybody , ' said the Holy Man .
` You deserve -- but I will give you one more chance . '
And , turning , he unhooked something from the wall .
` When you wish to dust your own jacket or those of your friends , ' he said , ` you have only got to say , `` Flack , flick , switch , be quick , '' and you will see what happens .
That is all I have to tell you . '
And , smiling to himself , the Holy Man pushed Father Grumbler out of the cave .
` Ah , I understand now , ' muttered the good man , as he took the road home ; ` but I think I have got you two rascals ! '
and he hurried on to the tavern with his basket under his arm , and the cock and the switch both inside .
` Good evening , friends ! '
he said , as he entered the inn . '
I am very hungry , and should be glad if you would roast this cock for me as soon as possible .
THIS cock and no other -- mind what I say , ' he went on .
` Oh , and another thing !
You can light the fire with this basket .
When you have done that I will show you something I have in my bag , ' and , as he spoke , he tried to imitate the smile that the Holy Man had given HIM .
These directions made the innkeeper 's wife very uneasy .
However , she said nothing , and began to roast the cock , while her husband did his best to make the man sleepy with wine , but all in vain .
After dinner , which he did not eat without grumbling , for the cock was very tough , the man struck his hand on the table , and said : ` Now listen to me .
Go and fetch my cock and my basket , at once .
Do you hear ? '
` Your cock , and your basket , Father Grumbler ?
But you have just -- ' ` MY cock and MY basket ! '
interrupted he .
` And , if you are too deaf and too stupid to understand what that means , I have got something which may help to teach you . '
And opening the bag , he cried : ` Flack , flick , switch , be quick . '
And flack !
flick !
like lightening a white switch sprang out of the bag , and gave such hearty blows to the innkeeper and his wife , and to Father Grumbler into the bargain , that they all jumped as high as feathers when a mattress is shaken .
` Stop !
stop !
make it stop , and you shall have back your cock and basket , ' cried the man and his wife .
And Father Grumbler , who had no wish to go on , called out between his hops : ` Stop then , ca n't you ?
That is enough for to-day ! '
But the switch paid no attention , and dealt out its blows as before , and MIGHT have been dealing them to this day , if the Holy Man had not heard their cries and come to the rescue .
` Into the bag , quick ! '
said he , and the switch obeyed .
` Now go and fetch me the cock and the basket , ' and the woman went without a word , and placed them on the table .
` You have all got what you deserved , ' continued the Holy Man , ` and I have no pity for any of you .
I shall take my treasures home , and perhaps some day I may find a man who knows how to make the best of the chances that are given to him .
But that will never be YOU , ' he added , turning to Father Grumbler .
-LSB- From Contes Populaires . -RSB-
The Story of the Yara Down in the south , where the sun shines so hotly that everything and everybody sleeps all day , and even the great forests seem silent , except early in the morning and late in the evening -- down in this country there once lived a young man and a maiden .
The girl had been born in the town , and had scarcely ever left it ; but the young man was a native of another country , and had only come to the city near the great river because he could find no work to do where he was .
A few months after his arrival , when the days were cooler , and the people did not sleep so much as usual , a great feast was held a little way out of the town , and to this feast everyone flocked from thirty miles and more .
Some walked and some rode , some came in beautiful golden coaches ; but all had on splendid dresses of red or blue , while wreaths of flowers rested on their hair .
It was the first time that the youth had been present on such an occasion , and he stood silently aside watching the graceful dances and the pretty games played by the young people .
And as he watched , he noticed one girl , dressed in white with scarlet pomegranates in her hair , who seemed to him lovelier than all the rest .
When the feast was over , and the young man returned home , his manner was so strange that it drew the attention of all his friends .
Through his work next day the youth continued to see the girl 's face , throwing the ball to her companions , or threading her way between them as she danced .
At night sleep fled from him , and after tossing for hours on his bed , he would get up and plunge into a deep pool that lay a little way in the forest .
This state of things went on for some weeks , then at last chance favoured him .
One evening , as he was passing near the house where she lived , he saw her standing with her back to the wall , trying to beat off with her fan the attacks of a savage dog that was leaping at her throat .
Alonzo , for such was his name , sprang forward , and with one blow of his fist stretched the creature dead upon the road .
He then helped the frightened and half-fainting girl into the large cool verandah where her parents were sitting , and from that hour he was a welcome guest in the house , and it was not long before he was the promised husband of Julia .
Every day , when his work was done , he used to go up to the house , half hidden among flowering plants and brilliant creepers , where humming-birds darted from bush to bush , and parrots of all colours , red and green and grey , shrieked in chorus .
There he would find the maiden waiting for him , and they would spend an hour or two under the stars , which looked so large and bright that you felt as if you could almost touch them .
` What did you do last night after you went home ? '
suddenly asked the girl one evening .
` Just the same as I always do , ' answered he .
` It was too hot to sleep , so it was no use going to bed , and I walked straight of to the forest and bathed in one of those deep dark pools at the edge of the river .
I have been there constantly for several months , but last night a strange thing happened .
I was taking my last plunge , when I heard -- sometimes from one side , and sometimes from another -- the sound of a voice singing more sweetly than any nightingale , though I could not catch any words .
I left the pool , and , dressing myself as fast as I could , I searched every bush and tree round the water , as I fancied that perhaps it was my friend who was playing a trick on me , but there was not a creature to be seen ; and when I reached home I found my friend fast asleep . '
As Julia listened her face grew deadly white , and her whole body shivered as if with cold .
From her childhood she had heard stories of the terrible beings that lived in the forests and were hidden under the banks of the rivers , and could only be kept off by powerful charms .
Could the voice which had bewitched Alonzo have come from one of these ?
Perhaps , who knows , it might be the voice of the dreaded Yara herself , who sought young men on the eve of their marriage as her prey .
For a moment the girl sat choked with fear , as these thoughts rushed through her ; then she said : ` Alonzo , will you promise something ? '
` What is that ? '
asked he .
` It is something that has to do with our future happiness . '
` Oh !
it is serious , then ?
Well , of course I promise .
Now tell me ! ' '
I want you to promise , ' she answered , lowering her voice to a whisper , ` never to bathe in those pools again . '
` But why not , queen of my soul ; have I not gone there always , and nothing has harmed me , flower of my heart ? '
` No ; but perhaps something will .
If you will not promise I shall go mad with fright .
Promise me . '
` Why , what is the matter ?
You look so pale !
Tell me why you are so frightened ? '
` Did you not hear the song ? '
she asked , trembling .
` Suppose I did , how could that hurt me ?
It was the loveliest song I ever heard ! '
` Yes , and after the song will come the apparition ; and after that -- after that -- ' ' I do n't understand .
Well -- after that ? '
` After that -- death . '
Alonzo stared at her .
Had she really gone mad ?
Such talk was very unlike Julia ; but before he could collect his senses the girl spoke again : ` That is the reason why I implore you never to go there again ; at any rate till after we are married . '
` And what difference will our marriage make ? '
` Oh , there will be no danger then ; you can go to bathe as often as you like ! '
` But tell me why you are so afraid ? '
` Because the voice you heard -- I know you will laugh , but it is quite true -- it was the voice of the Yara . '
At these words Alonzo burst into a shout of laughter ; but it sounded so harsh and loud that Julia shrank away shuddering .
It seemed as if he could not stop himself , and the more he laughed the paler the poor girl became , murmuring to herself as she watched him : ` Oh , heaven !
you have seen her !
you have seen her !
what shall I do ? '
Faint as was her whisper , it reached the ears of Alonzo , who , though he still could not speak for laughing , shook his head .
` You may not know it , but it is true .
Nobody who has not seen the Yara laughs like that . '
And Julia flung herself on the ground weeping bitterly .
At this sight Alonzo became suddenly grave , and kneeling by her side , gently raised her up .
` Do not cry so , my angel , ' he said , ' I will promise anything you please .
Only let me see you smile again . '
With a great effort Julia checked her sobs , and rose to her feet .
` Thank you , ' she answered .
` My heart grows lighter as you say that !
I know you will try to keep your word and to stay away from the forest .
But -- the power of the Yara is very strong , and the sound of her voice is apt to make men forget everything else in the world .
Oh , I have seen it , and more than one betrothed maiden lives alone , broken-hearted .
If ever you should return to the pool where you first heard the voice , promise me that you will at least take this with you . '
And opening a curiously carved box , she took out a sea-shell shot with many colours , and sang a song softly into it .
` The moment you hear the Yara 's voice , ' said she , ` put this to your ear , and you will hear my song instead .
Perhaps -- I do not know for certain -- but perhaps , I may be stronger than the Yara . '
It was late that night when Alonzo returned home .
The moon was shining on the distant river , which looked cool and inviting , and the trees of the forest seemed to stretch out their arms and beckon him near .
But the young man steadily turned his face in the other direction , and went home to bed .
The struggle had been hard , but Alonzo had his reward next day in the joy and relief with which Julia greeted him .
He assured her that having overcome the temptation once the danger was now over ; but she , knowing better than he did the magic of the Yara 's face and voice , did not fail to make him repeat his promise when he went away .
For three nights Alonzo kept his word , not because he believed in the Yara , for he thought that the tales about her were all nonsense , but because he could not bear the tears with which he knew that Julia would greet him , if he confessed that he had returned to the forest .
But , in spite of this , the song rang in his ears , and daily grew louder .
On the fourth night the attraction of the forest grew so strong that neither the thought of Julia nor the promises he had made her could hold him back .
At eleven o'clock he plunged into the cool darkness of the trees , and took the path that led straight to the river .
Yet , for the first time , he found that Julia 's warnings , though he had laughed at her at the moment , had remained in his memory , and he glanced at the bushes with a certain sense of fear which was quite new to him .
When he reached the river he paused and looked round for a moment to make sure that the strange feeling of some one watching him was fancy , and he was really alone .
But the moon shone brightly on every tree , and nothing was to be seen but his own shadow ; nothing was to be heard but the sound of the rippling stream .
He threw off his clothes , and was just about to dive in headlong , when something -- he did not know what -- suddenly caused him to look round .
At the same instant the moon passed from behind a cloud , and its rays fell on a beautiful golden-haired woman standing half hidden by the ferns .
With one bound he caught up his mantle , and rushed headlong down the path he had come , fearing at each step to feel a hand laid on his shoulder .
It was not till he had left the last trees behind him , and was standing in the open plain , that he dared to look round , and then he thought a figure in white was still standing there waving her arms to and fro .
This was enough ; he ran along the road harder than ever , and never paused till he was save in his own room .
With the earliest rays of dawn he went back to the forest to see whether he could find any traces of the Yara , but though he searched every clump of bushes , and looked up every tree , everything was empty , and the only voices he heard were those of parrots , which are so ugly that they only drive people away . '
I think I must be mad , ' he said to himself , ` and have dreamt all that folly ' ; and going back to the city he began his daily work .
But either that was harder than usual , or he must be ill , for he could not fix his mind upon it , and everybody he came across during the day inquired if anything had happened to give him that white , frightened look . '
I must be feverish , ' he said to himself ; ` after all , it is rather dangerous to take a cold bath when one is feeling so hot . '
Yet he knew , while he said it , that he was counting the hours for night to come , that he might return to the forest .
In the evening he went as usual to the creeper-covered house .
But he had better have stayed away , as his face was so pale and his manner so strange , that the poor girl saw that something terrible had occurred .
Alonzo , however , refused to answer any of her questions , and all she could get was a promise to hear everything the next day .
On pretence of a violent headache , he left Julia much earlier than usual and hurried quickly home .
Taking down a pistol , he loaded it and put it in his belt , and a little before midnight he stole out on the tips of his toes , so as to disturb nobody .
Once outside he hastened down the road which led to the forest .
He did not stop till he had reached the river pool , when holding the pistol in his hand , he looked about him .
At every little noise -- the falling of a leaf , the rustle of an animal in the bushes , the cry of a night-bird -- he sprang up and cocked his pistol in the direction of the sound .
But though the moon still shone he saw nothing , and by and by a kind of dreamy state seemed to steal over him as he leant against a tree .
How long he remained in this condition he could not have told , but suddenly he awoke with a start , on hearing his name uttered softly .
` Who is that ? '
he cried , standing upright instantly ; but only an echo answered him .
Then his eyes grew fascinated with the dark waters of the pool close to his feet , and he looked at it as if he could never look away .
He gazed steadily into the depths for some minutes , when he became aware that down in the darkness was a bright spark , which got rapidly bigger and brighter .
Again that feeling of awful fear took possession of him , and he tried to turn his eyes from the pool .
But it was no use ; something stronger than himself compelled him to keep them there .
At last the waters parted softly , and floating on the surface he saw the beautiful woman whom he had fled from only a few nights before .
He turned to run , but his feet were glued to the spot .
She smiled at him and held out her arms , but as she did so there came over him the remembrance of Julia , as he had seen her a few hours earlier , and her warnings and fears for the very danger in which he now found himself .
Meanwhile the figure was always drawing nearer , nearer ; but , with a violent effort , Alonzo shook off his stupor , and taking aim at her shoulder he pulled the trigger .
The report awoke the sleeping echoes , and was repeated all through the forest , but the figure smiled still , and went on advancing .
Again Alonzo fired , and a second time the bullet whistled through the air , and the figure advanced nearer .
A moment more , and she would be at his side .
Then , his pistol being empty , he grasped the barrel with both hands , and stood ready to use it as a club should the Yara approach and closer .
But now it seemed her turn to feel afraid , for she paused an instant while he pressed forward , still holding the pistol above his head , prepared to strike .
In his excitement he had forgotten the river , and it was not till the cold water touched his feet that he stood still by instinct .
The Yara saw that he was wavering , and suffering herself to sway gently backwards and forwards on the surface of the river , she began to sing .
The song floated through the trees , now far and now near ; no one could tell whence it came , the whole air seemed full of it .
Alonzo felt his senses going and his will failing .
His arms dropped heavily to his side , but in falling struck against the sea shell , which , as he had promised Julia , he had always carried in his coat .
His dimmed mind was just clear enough to remember what she had said , and with trembling fingers , that were almost powerless to grasp , he drew it out .
As he did so the song grew sweeter and more tender than before , but he shut his ears to it and bent his head over the shell .
Out of its depths arose the voice of Julia singing to him as she had sung when she gave him the shell , and though the notes sounded faint at first , they swelled louder and louder till the mist which had gathered about him was blown away .
Then he raised his head , feeling that he had been through strange places , where he could never wander any more ; and he held himself erect and strong , and looked about him .
Nothing was to be seen but the shining of the river , and the dark shadows of the trees ; nothing was to be heard but the hum of the insects , as they darted through the night .
-LSB- Adapted from Folklore Bresilien . -RSB-
The Cunning Hare In a very cold country , far across the seas , where ice and snow cover the ground for many months in the year , there lived a little hare , who , as his father and mother were both dead , was brought up by his grandmother .
As he was too young , and she was too old , to work , they were very poor , and often did not have enough to eat .
One day , when the little fellow was hungrier than usual , he asked his grandmother if he might go down to the river and catch a fish for their breakfast , as the thaw had come and the water was flowing freely again .
She laughed at him for thinking that any fish would let itself be caught by a hare , especially such a young one ; but as she had the rheumatism very badly , and could get no food herself , she let him go .
` If he does not catch a fish he may find something else , ' she said to herself .
So she told her grandson where to look for the net , and how he was to set it across the river ; but just as he was starting , feeling himself quite a man , she called him back .
` After all , I do n't know what is the use of your going , my boy !
For even if you should catch a fish , I have no fire to cook it with . '
` Let me catch my fish , and I will soon make you a fire , ' he answered gaily , for he was young , and knew nothing about the difficulties of fire-making .
It took him some time to haul the net through bushes and over fields , but at length he reached a pool in the river which he had often heard was swarming with fish , and here he set the net , as his grandmother had directed him .
He was so excited that he hardly slept all night , and at the very first streak of dawn he ran as fast as ever he could down to the river .
His heart beat as quickly as if he had had dogs behind him , and he hardly dared to look , lest he should be disappointed .
Would there be even one fish ?
And at this thought the pangs of hunger made him feel quite sick with fear .
But he need not have been afraid ; in every mesh of the net was a fine fat fish , and of course the net itself was so heavy that he could only lift one corner .
He threw some of the fish back into the water , and buried some more in a hole under a stone , where he would be sure to find them .
Then he rolled up the net with the rest , put it on his back and carried it home .
The weight of the load caused his back to ache , and he was thankful to drop it outside their hut , while he rushed in , full of joy , to tell his grandmother .
` Be quick and clean them ! '
he said , ` and I will go to those people 's tents on the other side of the water . '
The old woman stared at him in horror as she listened to his proposal .
Other people had tried to steal fire before , and few indeed had come back with their lives ; but as , contrary to all her expectations , he had managed to catch such a number of fish , she thought that perhaps there was some magic about him which she did not know of , and did not try to hinder him .
When the fish were all taken out , he fetched the net which he had laid out to dry , folded it up very small , and ran down to the river , hoping that he might find a place narrow enough for him to jump over ; but he soon saw that it was too wide for even the best jumper in the world .
For a few moments he stood there , wondering what was to be done , then there darted into his head some words of a spell which he had once heard a wizard use , while drinking from the river .
He repeated them , as well as he could remember , and waited to see what would happen .
In five minutes such a grunting and a puffing was heard , and columns of water rose into the air , though he could not tell what had made them .
Then round the bend of the stream came fifteen huge whales , which he ordered to place themselves heads to tails , like stepping stones , so that he could jump from one to the other till he landed on the opposite shore .
Directly he got there he told the whales that he did not need them any more , and sat down in the sand to rest .
Unluckily some children who were playing about caught sight of him , and one of them , stealing softly up behind him , laid tight hold of his ears .
The hare , who had been watching the whales as they sailed down the river , gave a violent start , and struggled to get away ; but the boy held on tight , and ran back home , as fast as he could go .
` Throw it in the pot , ' said the old woman , as soon as he had told his story ; ` put it in that basket , and as soon as the water boils in the pot we will hang it over the fire ! '
` Better kill it first , ' said the old man ; and the hare listened , horribly frightened , but still looking secretly to see if there was no hole through which he could escape , if he had a chance of doing so .
Yes , there was one , right in the top of the tent , so , shaking himself , as if with fright , he let the end of his net unroll itself a little . '
I wish that a spark of fire would fall on my net , ' whispered he ; and the next minute a great log fell forward into the midst of the tent , causing every one to spring backwards .
The sparks were scattered in every direction , and one fell on the net , making a little blaze .
In an instant the hare had leaped through the hole , and was racing towards the river , with men , women , and children after him .
There was no time to call back the whales , so , holding the net tight in his mouth , he wished himself across the river .
Then he jumped high into the air , and landed safe on the other side , and after turning round to be sure that there was no chance of anyone pursuing him , trotted happily home to his grandmother .
` Did n't I tell you I would bring you fire ? '
said he , holding up his net , which was now burning briskly .
` But how did you cross the water ? '
inquired the old woman .
` Oh , I just jumped ! '
said he .
And his grandmother asked him no more questions , for she saw that he was wiser than she .
-LSB- ` Indian Folk Tales . '
Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
The Turtle and His Bride There was once a turtle who lived among a great many people of different kinds , in a large camp near a big river which was born right up amongst the snows , and flowed straight away south till it reached a sea where the water was always hot .
There were many other turtles in the camp , and this turtle was kind and pleasant to them all , but he did not care for any of them very much , and felt rather lonely .
At last he built himself a hut , and filled it with skins for seats , and made it as comfortable as any hut for miles round ; and when it was quite finished he looked about among the young women to see which of them he should ask to be his wife .
It took him some time to make up his mind , for no turtle likes being hurried , but at length he found one girl who seemed prettier and more industrious than the rest , and one day he entered her home , and said : ` Will you marry me ? '
The young woman was so surprised at this question that she dropped the beaded slipper she was making , and stared at the turtle .
She felt inclined to laugh -- the idea was so absurd ; but she was kind-hearted and polite , so she looked as grave as she could , and answered : ` But how are you going to provide for a family ?
Why , when the camp moves , you will not even be able to keep up with the rest ! ' '
I can keep up with the best of them , ' replied the turtle , tossing his head .
But though he was very much offended he did not let the girl see it , and begged and , prayed her so hard to marry him that , at last , she consented , very unwillingly .
` You will have to wait till the spring , though , ' she said ; ' I must make a great many slippers and dresses for myself , as I shall not have much time afterwards . '
This did not please the turtle ; but he knew it was no use talking , so all he answered was : ' I shall go to war and take some captives , and I shall be away several months .
And when I return I shall expect you to be ready to marry me . '
So he went back to his hut , and at once set about his preparations .
The first thing he did was to call all his relations together , and ask them if they would come with him and make war on the people of a neighbouring village .
The turtles , who were tired of doing nothing , agreed at once , and next day the whole tribe left the camp .
The girl was standing at the door of her hut as they passed , and laughed out loud -- they moved so slowly .
Her lover , who was marching at the head , grew very angry at this , and cried out : ` In four days from now you will be weeping instead of laughing , because there will be hundreds of miles between you and me . '
` In four days , ' replied the girl -- who only promised to marry him in order to get rid of him -- ` in four days you will hardly be out of sight . '
` Oh , I did not mean four days , but four YEARS , ' answered the turtle , hastily ; ` whatever happens I shall be back by then . '
The army marched on , till one day , when they felt as if they must have got half round the earth , though they were scarcely four miles from the camp , they found a large tree lying across their path .
They looked at it with dismay , and the oldest among them put their heads together to see what was to be done .
` Ca n't we manage to get past by the top ? '
asked one .
` Why , it would take us YEARS , ' exclaimed another .
` Just look at all those tall green branches , spreading in every direction .
If once we got entangled in THEM , we should never get out again ! '
` Well then , let us go round by the bottom , ' said a third .
` How are we to do that , when the roots have made a deep hole , and above that is a high bank ? '
replied a fourth .
` No ; the only way I can think of , is to burn a large hole in the trunk . '
And this they did , but the trunk was very thick , and would not burn through .
` It is no use , we must give it up , ' they agreed at last .
` After all , nobody need ever know !
We have been away such a long while that we might easily have had all sorts of adventures . '
And so the whole company turned homewards again .
They took even longer to go back than they had to come , for they were tired and footsore with their journey .
When they drew near the camp they plucked up their courage , and began to sing a war-song .
At this the villagers came flocking to see what spoils the turtles had won , but , as they approached , each turtle seized some one by the wrist , exclaiming : ` You are our spoils ; you are our prisoners ! '
` Now that I have got you I will keep you , ' said the leader , who had happened to seize his betrothed .
Everybody was naturally very angry at this behaviour , and the girl most of all , and in her secret heart she determined to have her revenge .
But , just at present , the turtles were too strong , so the prisoners had to put on their smartest slippers and their brightest clothes , and dance a war dance while the turtles sang .
They danced so long that it seemed as if they would never stop , till the turtle who was leading the singing suddenly broke into a loud chant : Whoever comes here , will die , will die !
At this all the dancers grew so frightened that they burst through the ring of their captors , and ran back to the village , the turtles following -- very slowly .
On the way the chief turtle met a man , who said to him : ` That woman who was to have been your wife has married another man ! '
` Is that true ? '
said the turtle .
` Then I must see him . '
But as soon as the villager was out of sight the turtle stopped , and taking a bundle containing fringes and ornaments from his back , he hung them about him , so that they rattled as he walked .
When he was quite close to the hut where the woman lived , he cried out : ` Here I am to claim the woman who promised to be my wife . '
` Oh , here is the turtle , ' whispered the husband hurriedly ; ` what is to be done now ? '
` Leave that to me ; I will manage him , ' replied the wife , and at that moment the turtle came in , and seized her by the wrist .
` Come with me , ' he said sternly .
` You broke your promise , ' answered she .
` You said you would be back soon , and it is more than a year since you went !
How was I to know that you were alive ? '
At her words the husband took courage , and spoke hastily : ` Yes , you promised you would go to war and bring back some prisoners , and you have not done it . ' '
I DID go , and made many prisoners , ' retorted the turtle angrily , drawing out his knife .
` Look here , if she wo n't be MY wife , she sha 'n' t be YOURS .
I will cut her in two ; and you shall have one half , and I the other . '
` But half a woman is no use to me , ' answered the man .
` If you want her so much you had better take her . '
And the turtle , followed by his relations , carried her off to his own hut .
Now the woman saw she would gain nothing by being sulky , so she pretended to be very glad to have got rid of her husband ; but all the while she was trying to invent a plan to deliver herself from the turtle .
At length she remembered that one of her friends had a large iron pot , and when the turtle had gone to his room to put away his fringes , she ran over to her neighbour 's and brought it back .
Then she filled it with water and hung it over the fire to boil .
It was just beginning to bubble and hiss when the turtle entered .
` What are you doing there ? '
asked he , for he was always afraid of things that he did not understand .
` Just warming some water , ' she answered .
` Do you know how to swim ? '
` Yes , of course I do .
What a question !
But what does it matter to you ? '
said the turtle , more suspicious than ever .
` Oh , I only thought that after your long journey you might like to wash .
The roads are so muddy , after the winter 's rains .
I could rub your shell for you till it was bright and shining again .
` Well , I AM rather muddy .
If one is fighting , you know , one can not stop to pick one 's way .
I should certainly be more comfortable if my back was washed . '
The woman did not wait for him to change his mind .
She caught him up by his shell and popped him straight into the pot , where he sank to the bottom , and died instantly .
The other turtles , who were standing at the door , saw their leader disappear , and felt it was their duty as soldiers to follow him ; and , springing into the pot , died too .
All but one young turtle , who , frightened at not seeing any of his friends come out again , went as fast as he could to a clump of bushes , and from there made his way to the river .
His only thought was to get away as far as possible from that dreadful hut ; so he let the river carry him where it was going itself , and at last , one day , he found himself in the warm sea , where , if he is not dead , you may meet him still .
-LSB- Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
How Geirald The Coward Was Punished Once upon a time there lived a poor knight who had a great many children , and found it very hard to get enough for them to eat .
One day he sent his eldest son , Rosald , a brave and honest youth , to the neighbouring town to do some business , and here Rosald met a young man named Geirald , with whom he made friends .
Now Geirald was the son of a rich man , who was proud of the boy , and had all his life allowed him to do whatever he fancied , and , luckily for the father , he was prudent and sensible , and did not waste money , as many other rich young men might have done .
For some time he had set his heart on travelling into foreign countries , and after he had been talking for a little while to Rosald , he asked if his new friend would be his companion on his journey .
` There is nothing I should like better , ' answered Rosald , shaking his head sorrowfully ; ` but my father is very poor , and he could never give me the money . '
` Oh , if that is your only difficulty , it is all right , ' cried Geirald .
` My father has more money than he knows what to do with , and he will give me as much as I want for both of us ; only , there is one thing you must promise me , Rosald , that , supposing we have any adventures , you will let the honour and glory of them fall to me . '
` Yes , of course , that is only fair , ' answered Rosald , who never cared about putting himself forward .
` But I can not go without telling my parents .
I am sure they will think me lucky to get such a chance . '
As soon as the business was finished , Rosald hastened home .
His parents were delighted to hear of his good fortune , and his father gave him his own sword , which was growing rusty for want of use , while his mother saw that his leather jerkin was in order .
` Be sure you keep the promise you made to Geirald , ' said she , as she bade him good-bye , ` and , come what may , see that you never betray him . '
Full of joy Rosald rode off , and the next day he and Geirald started off to seek adventures .
To their disappointment their own land was so well governed that nothing out of the common was very likely to happen , but directly they crossed the border into another kingdom all seemed lawlessness and confusion .
They had not gone very far , when , riding across a mountain , they caught a glimpse of several armed men hiding amongst some trees in their path , and remembered suddenly some talk they had heard of a band of twelve robbers who lay in wait for rich travellers .
The robbers were more like savage beasts than men , and lived somewhere at the top of the mountain in caves and holes in the ground .
They were all called ` Hankur , ' and were distinguished one from another by the name of a colour -- blue , grey , red , and so on , except their chief , who was known as Hankur the Tall .
All this and more rushed into the minds of the two young men as they saw the flash of their swords in the moonlight .
` It is impossible to fight them -- they are twelve to two , ' whispered Geirald , stopping his horse in the path .
` We had much better ride back and take the lower road .
It would be stupid to throw away our lives like this . '
` Oh , we ca n't turn back , ' answered Rosald , ` we should be ashamed to look anyone in the face again !
And , besides , it is a grand opportunity to show what we are made of .
Let us tie up our horses here , and climb up the rocks so that we can roll stones down on them . '
` Well , we might try that , and then we shall always have our horses , ' said Geirald .
So they went up the rocks silently and carefully .
The robbers were lying all ready , expecting every moment to see their victims coming round the corner a few yards away , when a shower of huge stones fell on their heads , killing half the band .
The others sprang up the rock , but as they reached the top the sword of Rosald swung round , and one man after another rolled down into the valley .
At last the chief managed to spring up , and , grasping Rosald by the waist , flung away his sword , and the two fought desperately , their bodies swaying always nearer the edge .
It seemed as if Rosald , being the smaller of the two , MUST fall over , when , with his left hand , he drew the robber 's sword out of its sheath and plunged it into his heart .
Then he took from the dead man a beautiful ring set with a large stone , and put it on his own finger .
The fame of this wonderful deed soon spread through the country , and people would often stop Geirald 's horse , and ask leave to see the robber 's ring , which was said to have been stolen from the father of the reigning king .
And Geirald showed them the ring with pride , and listened to their words of praise , and no one would ever have guessed anyone else had destroyed the robbers .
In a few days they left the kingdom and rode on to another , where they thought they would stop through the remainder of the winter , for Geirald liked to be comfortable , and did not care about travelling through ice and snow .
But the king would only grant them leave to stop on condition that , before the winter was ended , they should give him some fresh proof of the courage of which he had heard so much .
Rosald 's heart was glad at the king 's message , and as for Geirald , he felt that as long as Rosald was there all would go well .
So they both bowed low and replied that it was the king 's place to command and theirs to obey .
` Well , then , ' said his Majesty , ` this is what I want you to do : In the north-east part of my kingdom there dwells a giant , who has an iron staff twenty yards long , and he is so quick in using it , that even fifty knights have no chance against him .
The bravest and strongest young men of my court have fallen under the blows of that staff ; but , as you overcame the twelve robbers so easily , I feel that I have reason to hope that you may be able to conquer the giant .
In three days from this you will set out . '
` We will be ready , your Majesty , ' answered Rosald ; but Geirald remained silent .
` How can we possibly fight against a giant that has killed fifty knights ? '
cried Geirald , when they were outside the castle .
` The king only wants to get rid of us !
He wo n't think about us for the next three days -- that is one comfort -- so we shall have plenty of time to cross the borders of the kingdom and be out of reach . '
` We may n't be able to kill the giant , but we certainly ca n't run away till we have tried , ' answered Rosald .
` Besides , think how glorious it will be if we DO manage to kill him !
I know what sort of weapon I shall use .
Come with me now , and I will see about it . '
And , taking his friend by the arm , he led him into a shop where he bought a huge lump of solid iron , so big that they could hardly lift it between them .
However , they just managed to carry it to a blacksmith 's where Rosald directed that it should be beaten into a thick club , with a sharp spike at one end .
When this was done to his liking he took it home under his arm .
Very early on the third morning the two young men started on their journey , and on the fourth day they reached the giant 's cave before he was out of bed .
Hearing the sound of footsteps , the giant got up and went to the entrance to see who was coming , and Rosald , expecting something of the sort , struck him such a blow on the forehead that he fell to the ground .
Then , before he could rise to his feet again , Rosald drew out his sword and cut off his head .
` It was not so difficult after all , you see , ' he said , turning to Geirald .
And placing the giant 's head in a leathern wallet which was slung over his back , they began their journey to the castle .
As they drew near the gates , Rosald took the head from the wallet and handed it to Geirald , whom he followed into the king 's presence .
` The giant will trouble you no more , ' said Geirald , holding out the head .
And the king fell on his neck and kissed him , and cried joyfully that he was the ` bravest knight in all the world , and that a feast should be made for him and Rosald , and that the great deed should be proclaimed throughout the kingdom . '
And Geirald 's heart swelled with pride , and he almost forgot that it was Rosald and not he , who had slain the giant .
By-and-by a whisper went round that a beautiful lady who lived in the castle would be present at the feast , with twenty-four lovely maidens , her attendants .
The lady was the queen of her own country , but as her father and mother had died when she was a little girl , she had been left in the care of this king who was her uncle .
She was now old enough to govern her own kingdom , but her subjects did not like being ruled by a woman , and said that she must find a husband to help her in managing her affairs .
Prince after prince had offered himself , but the young queen would have nothing to say to any of them , and at last told her ministers that if she was to have a husband at all she must choose him for herself , as she would certainly not marry any of those whom they had selected for her .
The ministers replied that in that case she had better manage her kingdom alone , and the queen , who knew nothing about business , got things into such a confusion that at last she threw them up altogether , and went off to her uncle .
Now when she heard how the two young men had slain the giant , her heart was filled with admiration of their courage , and she declared that if a feast was held she would certainly be present at it .
And so she was ; and when the feast was over she asked the king , her guardian , if he would allow the two heroes who had killed the robbers and slain the giant to fight a tourney the next day with one of her pages .
The king gladly gave his consent , and ordered the lists to be made ready , never doubting that two great champions would be eager for such a chance of adding to their fame .
Little did he guess that Geirald had done all he could to persuade Rosald to steal secretly out of the castle during the night , ` for , ' said he , ' I do n't believe they are pages at all , but well-proved knights , and how can we , so young and untried , stand up against them ? '
` The honour will be all the higher if we gain the day , ' answered Rosald ; but Geirald would listen to nothing , and only declared that he did not care about honour , and would rather be alive than have every honour in the world heaped upon him .
Go he would , and as Rosald had sworn to give him his company , he must come with him .
Rosald was much grieved when he heard these words , but he knew that it was useless attempting to persuade Geirald , and turned his thoughts to forming some plan to prevent this disgraceful flight .
Suddenly his face brightened .
` Let us change clothes , ' he said , ` and I will do the fighting , while you shall get the glory .
Nobody will ever know . '
And to this Geirald readily consented .
Whether Geirald was right or not in thinking that the so-called page was really a well-proved knight , it is certain that Rosald 's task was a very hard one .
Three times they came together with a crash which made their horses reel ; once Rosald knocked the helmet off his foe , and received in return such a blow that he staggered in his saddle .
Shouts went up from the lookers-on , as first one and then the other seemed gaining the victory ; but at length Rosald planted his spear in the armour which covered his adversary 's breast and bore him steadily backward .
` Unhorsed !
unhorsed ! '
cried the people ; and Rosald then himself dismounted and helped his adversary to rise .
In the confusion that followed it was easy for Rosald to slip away and return Geirald his proper clothes .
And in these , torn and dusty with the fight , Geirald answered the king 's summons to come before him .
` You have done what I expected you to do , ' said he , ` and now , choose your reward . '
` Grant me , sire , the hand of the queen , your niece , ' replied the young man , bowing low , ` and I will defend her kingdom against all her enemies . '
` She could choose no better husband , ' said the king , ` and if she consents I do . '
And he turned towards the queen , who had not been present during the fight , but had just slipped into a seat by his right hand .
Now the queen 's eyes were very sharp , and it seemed to her that the man who stood before her , tall and handsome though he might be , was different in many slight ways , and in one in particular , from the man who had fought the tourney .
How there could be any trickery she could not understand , and why the real victor should be willing to give up his prize to another was still stranger ; but something in her heart warned her to be careful .
She answered : ` You may be satisfied , uncle , but I am not .
One more proof I must have ; let the two young men now fight against each other .
The man I marry must be the man who killed the robbers and the giant , and overcame my page . '
Geirald 's face grew pale as he heard these words .
He knew there was no escape from him now , though he did not doubt for one moment that Rosald would keep his compact loyally to the last .
But how would it be possible that even Rosald should deceive the watchful eyes of the king and his court , and still more those of the young queen whom he felt uneasily had suspected him from the first ?
The tourney was fought , and in spite of Geirald 's fears Rosald managed to hang back to make attacks which were never meant to succeed , and to allow strokes which he could easily have parried to attain their end .
At length , after a great show of resistance , he fell heavily to the ground .
And as he fell he knew that it was not alone the glory that was his rightfully which he gave up , but the hand of the queen that was more precious still .
But Geirald did not even wait to see if he was wounded ; he went straight to the wall where the royal banner waved and claimed the reward which was now his .
The crowd of watchers turned towards the queen , expecting to see her stoop and give some token to the victor .
Instead , to the surprise of everyone , she merely smiled gracefully , and said that before she bestowed her hand one more test must be imposed , but this should be the last .
The final tourney should be fought ; Geirald and Rosald should meet singly two knights of the king 's court , and he who could unhorse his foe should be master of herself and of her kingdom .
The combat was fixed to take place at ten o'clock the following day .
All night long Geirald walked about his room , not daring to face the fight that lay in front of him , and trying with all his might to discover some means of escaping it .
All night long he moved restlessly from door to window ; and when the trumpets sounded , and the combatants rode into the field , he alone was missing .
The king sent messengers to see what had become of him , and he was found , trembling with fear , hiding under his bed .
After that there was no need of any further proof .
The combat was declared unnecessary , and the queen pronounced herself quite satisfied , and ready to accept Rosald as her husband .
` You forgot one thing , ' she said , when they were alone . '
I recognized my father 's ring which Hankur the Tall had stolen , on the finger of your right hand , and I knew that it was you and not Geirald who had slain the robber band .
I was the page who fought you , and again I saw the ring on your finger , though it was absent from his when he stood before me to claim the prize .
That was why I ordered the combat between you , though your faith to your word prevented my plan being successful , and I had to try another .
The man who keeps his promise at all costs to himself is the man I can trust , both for myself and for my people . '
So they were married , and returned to their own kingdom , which they ruled well and happily .
And many years after a poor beggar knocked at the palace gates and asked for money , for the sake of days gone by -- and this was Geirald .
-LSB- From Neuislandischem Volksmarcher . -RSB-
Habogi Once upon a time there lived two peasants who had three daughters , and , as generally happens , the youngest was the most beautiful and the best tempered , and when her sisters wanted to go out she was always ready to stay at home and do their work .
Years passed quickly with the whole family , and one day the parents suddenly perceived that all three girls were grown up , and that very soon they would be thinking of marriage .
` Have you decided what your husband 's name is to be ? '
said the father , laughingly , to his eldest daughter , one evening when they were all sitting at the door of their cottage .
` You know that is a very important point ! '
` Yes ; I will never wed any man who is not called Sigmund , ' answered she .
` Well , it is lucky for you that there are a great many Sigmunds in this part of the world , ' replied her father , ` so that you can take your choice !
And what do YOU say ? '
he added , turning to the second .
` Oh , I think that there is no name so beautiful as Sigurd , ' cried she .
` Then you wo n't be an old maid either , ' answered he .
` There are seven Sigurds in the next village alone !
And you , Helga ? '
Helga , who was still the prettiest of the three , looked up .
She also had her favourite name , but , just as she was going to say it , she seemed to hear a voice whisper : ` Marry no one who is not called Habogi . '
The girl had never heard of such a name , and did not like it , so she determined to pay no attention ; but as she opened her mouth to tell her father that her husband must be called Njal , she found herself answering instead : ` If I do marry it will be to no one except Habogi . '
` Who IS Habogi ? '
asked her father and sisters ; ` We never heard of such a person . '
` All I can tell you is that he will be my husband , if ever I have one , ' returned Helga ; and that was all she would say .
Before very long the young men who lived in the neighbouring villages or on the sides of the mountains , had heard of this talk of the three girls , and Sigmunds and Sigurds in scores came to visit the little cottage .
There were other young men too , who bore different names , though not one of them was called ` Habogi , ' and these thought that they might perhaps gain the heart of the youngest .
But though there was more than one ` Njal ' amongst them , Helga 's eyes seemed always turned another way .
At length the two elder sisters made their choice from out of the Sigurds and the Sigmunds , and it was decided that both weddings should take place at the same time .
Invitations were sent out to the friends and relations , and when , on the morning of the great day , they were all assembled , a rough , coarse old peasant left the crowd and came up to the brides ' father .
` My name is Habogi , and Helga must be my wife , ' was all he said .
And though Helga stood pale and trembling with surprise , she did not try to run away . '
I can not talk of such things just now , ' answered the father , who could not bear the thought of giving his favourite daughter to this horrible old man , and hoped , by putting it off , that something might happen .
But the sisters , who had always been rather jealous of Helga , were secretly pleased that their bridegrooms should outshine hers .
When the feast was over , Habogi led up a beautiful horse from a field where he had left it to graze , and bade Helga jump up on its splendid saddle , all embroidered in scarlet and gold .
` You shall come back again , ' said he ; ` but now you must see the house that you are to live in . '
And though Helga was very unwilling to go , something inside her forced her to obey .
The old man settled her comfortably , then sprang up in front of her as easily as if he had been a boy , and , shaking the reins , they were soon out of sight .
After some miles they rode through a meadow with grass so green that Helga 's eyes felt quite dazzled ; and feeding on the grass were a quantity of large fat sheep , with the curliest and whitest wool in the world .
` What lovely sheep !
whose are they ? '
cried Helga .
` Your Habogi 's , ' answered he , ` all that you see belongs to him ; but the finest sheep in the whole herd , which has little golden bells hanging between its horns , you shall have for yourself . '
This pleased Helga very much , for she had never had anything of her own ; and she smiled quite happily as she thanked Habogi for his present .
They soon left the sheep behind them , and entered a large field with a river running through it , where a number of beautiful grey cows were standing by a gate waiting for a milk-maid to come and milk them .
` Oh , what lovely cows ! '
cried Helga again ; ' I am sure their milk must be sweeter than any other cows .
How I should like to have some !
I wonder to whom they belong ? '
` To your Habogi , ' replied he ; ` and some day you shall have as much milk as you like , but we can not stop now .
Do you see that big grey one , with the silver bells between her horns ?
That is to be yours , and you can have her milked every morning the moment you wake . '
And Helga 's eyes shone , and though she did not say anything , she thought that she would learn to milk the cow herself .
A mile further on they came to a wide common , with short , springy turf , where horses of all colours , with skins of satin , were kicking up their heels in play .
The sight of them so delighted Helga that she nearly sprang from her saddle with a shriek of joy .
` Whose are they ? '
Oh !
whose are they ? '
she asked .
` How happy any man must be who is the master of such lovely creatures ! '
` They are your Habogi 's , ' replied he , ` and the one which you think the most beautiful of all you shall have for yourself , and learn to ride him . '
At this Helga quite forgot the sheep and the cow . '
A horse of my own ! '
said she .
` Oh , stop one moment , and let me see which I will choose .
The white one ?
No .
The chestnut ?
No .
I think , after all , I like the coal-black one best , with the little white star on his forehead .
Oh , do stop , just for a minute . '
But Habogi would not stop or listen .
` When you are married you will have plenty of time to choose one , ' was all he answered , and they rode on two or three miles further .
At length Habogi drew rein before a small house , very ugly and mean-looking , and that seemed on the point of tumbling to pieces .
` This is my house , and is to be yours , ' said Habogi , as he jumped down and held out his arms to lift Helga from the horse .
The girl 's heart sank a little , as she thought that the man who possessed such wonderful sheep , and cows , and horses , might have built himself a prettier place to live in ; but she did not say so .
And , taking her arm , he led her up the steps .
But when she got inside , she stood quite bewildered at the beauty of all around her .
None of her friends owned such things , not even the miller , who was the richest man she knew .
There were carpets everywhere , thick and soft , and of deep rich colours ; and the cushions were of silk , and made you sleepy even to look at them ; and curious little figures in china were scattered about .
Helga felt as if it would take her all her life to see everything properly , and it only seemed a second since she had entered the house , when Habogi came up to her . '
I must begin the preparations for our wedding at once , ' he said ; ` but my foster-brother will take you home , as I promised .
In three days he will bring you back here , with your parents and sisters , and any guests you may invite , in your company .
By that time the feast will be ready . '
Helga had so much to think about , that the ride home appeared very short .
Her father and mother were delighted to see her , as they did not feel sure that so ugly and cross-looking a man as Habogi might not have played her some cruel trick .
And after they had given her some supper they begged her to tell them all she had done .
But Helga only told them that they should see for themselves on the third day , when they would come to her wedding .
It was very early in the morning when the party set out , and Helga 's two sisters grew green with envy as they passed the flocks of sheep , and cows , and horses , and heard that the best of each was given to Helga herself ; but when they caught sight of the poor little house which was to be her home their hearts grew light again . '
I should be ashamed of living in such a place , ' whispered each to the other ; and the eldest sister spoke of the carved stone over HER doorway , and the second boasted of the number of rooms SHE had .
But the moment they went inside they were struck dumb with rage at the splendour of everything , and their faces grew white and cold with fury when they saw the dress which Habogi had prepared for his bride -- a dress that glittered like sunbeams dancing upon ice .
` She SHALL not look so much finer than us , ' they cried passionately to each other as soon as they were alone ; and when night came they stole out of their rooms , and taking out the wedding-dress , they laid it in the ash-pit , and heaped ashes upon it .
But Habogi , who knew a little magic , and had guessed what they would do , changed the ashes into roses , and cast a spell over the sisters , so that they could not leave the spot for a whole day , and every one who passed by mocked at them .
The next morning when they all awoke the ugly tumble-down house had disappeared , and in its place stood a splendid palace .
The guests ' eyes sought in vain for the bridegroom , but could only see a handsome young man , with a coat of blue velvet and silver and a gold crown upon his head .
` Who is that ? '
they asked Helga .
` That is my Habogi , ' said she .
-LSB- From Neuislandischem Volksmarcher . -RSB-
How the Little Brother Set Free His Big Brothers In a small hut , right in the middle of the forest , lived a man , his wife , three sons and a daughter .
For some reason , all the animals seemed to have left that part of the country , and food grew very scarce ; so , one morning , after a night of snow , when the tracks of beasts might be easily seen , the three boys started off to hunt .
They kept together for some time , till they reached a place where the path they had been following split into two , and one of the brothers called his dog and went to the left , while the others took the trail to the right .
These had not gone far when their dogs scented a bear , and drove him out from the thicket .
The bear ran across a clearing , and the elder brother managed to place an arrow right in his head .
They both took up the bear , and carried it towards home , meeting the third at the spot where they had parted from him .
When they reached home they threw the bear down on the floor of the hut saying , ` Father , here is a bear which we killed ; now we can have some dinner . '
But the father , who was in a bad temper , only said : ` When I was a young man we used to get two bears in one day . '
The sons were rather disappointed at hearing this , and though there was plenty of meat to last for two or three days , they started off early in the morning down the same trail that they had followed before .
As they drew near the fork a bear suddenly ran out from behind a tree , and took the path on the right .
The two elder boys and their dogs pursued him , and soon the second son , who was also a good shot , killed him instantly with an arrow .
At the fork of the trail , on their way home , they met the youngest , who had taken the left-hand road , and had shot a bear for himself .
But when they threw the two bears triumphantly on the floor of the hut their father hardly looked at them , and only said : ` When I was a young man I used to get three bears in one day . '
The next day they were luckier than before , and brought back three bears , on which their father told them that HE had always killed four .
However , that did not prevent him from skinning the bears and cooking them in a way of his own , which he thought very good , and they all ate an excellent supper .
Now these bears were the servants of the great bear chief who lived in a high mountain a long way off .
And every time a bear was killed his shadow returned to the house of the bear chief , with the marks of his wounds plainly to bee seen by the rest .
The chief was furious at the number of bears the hunters had killed , and determined that he would find some way of destroying them .
So he called another of his servants , and said to him : ` Go to the thicket near the fork , where the boys killed your brothers , and directly they or the dogs see you return here as fast as ever you can .
The mountain will open to let you in , and the hunters will follow you .
Then I shall have them in my power , and be able to revenge myself . '
The servant bowed low , and started at once for the fork , where he hid himself in the bushes .
By-and-by the boys came in sight , but this time there were only two of them , as the youngest had stayed at home .
The air was warm and damp , and the snow soft and slushy , and the elder brother 's bowstring hung loose , while the bow of the younger caught in a tree and snapped in half .
At that moment the dogs began to bark loudly , and the bear rushed out of the thicket and set off in the direction of the mountain .
Without thinking that they had nothing to defend themselves with , should the bear turn and attack them , the boys gave chase .
The bear , who knew quite well that he could not be shot , sometimes slackened his pace and let the dogs get quite close ; and in this way the elder son reached the mountain without observing it , while his brother , who had hurt his foot , was still far behind .
As he ran up , the mountain opened to admit the bear , and the boy , who was close on his heels , rushed in after him , and did not know where he was till he saw bears sitting on every side of him , holding a council .
The animal he had been chasing sank panting in their midst , and the boy , very much frightened , stood still , letting his bow fall to the ground .
` Why are you trying to kill all my servants ? '
asked the chief .
` Look round and see their shades , with arrows sticking in them .
It was I who told the bear to-day how he was to lure you into my power .
I shall take care that you shall not hurt my people any more , because you will become a bear yourself . '
At this moment the second brother came up -- for the mountain had been left open on purpose to tempt him also -- and cried out breathlessly : ` Do n't you see that the bear is lying close to you ?
Why do n't you shoot him ? '
And , without waiting for a reply , pressed forward to drive his arrow into the heart of the bear .
But the elder one caught his raised arm , and whispered : ` Be quiet !
ca n't you tell where you are ? '
Then the boy looked up and saw the angry bears about him .
On the one side were the servants of the chief , and on the other the servants of the chief 's sister , who was sorry for the two youths , and begged that their lives might be spared .
The chief answered that he would not kill them , but only cast a spell over them , by which their heads and bodies should remain as they were , but their arms and legs should change into those of a bear , so that they would go on all fours for the rest of their lives .
And , stooping over a spring of water , he dipped a handful of moss in it and rubbed it over the arms and legs of the boys .
In an instant the transformation took place , and two creatures , neither beast nor human stood before the chief .
Now the bear chief of course knew that the boys ' father would seek for his sons when they did not return home , so he sent another of his servants to the hiding-place at the fork of the trail to see what would happen .
He had not waited long , when the father came in sight , stooping as he went to look for his sons ' tracks in the snow .
When he saw the marks of snow-shoes along the path on the right he was filled with joy , not knowing that the servant had made some fresh tracks on purpose to mislead him ; and he hastened forward so fast that he fell headlong into a pit , where the bear was sitting .
Before he could pick himself up the bear had quietly broken his neck , and , hiding the body under the snow , sat down to see if anyone else would pass that way .
Meanwhile the mother at home was wondering what had become of her two sons , and as the hours went on , and their father never returned , she made up her mind to go and look for him .
The youngest boy begged her to let him undertake the search , but she would not hear of it , and told him he must stay at home and take care of his sister .
So , slipping on her snow-shoes , she started on her way .
As no fresh snow had fallen , the trail was quite easy to find , and she walked straight on , till it led her up to the pit where the bear was waiting for her .
He grasped her as she fell and broke her neck , after which he laid her in the snow beside her husband , and went back to tell the bear chief .
Hour after hour dragged heavily by in the forest hut , and at last the brother and sister felt quite sure that in some way or other all the rest of the family had perished .
Day after day the boy climbed to the top of a tall tree near the house , and sat there till he was almost frozen , looking on all sides through the forest openings , hoping that he might see someone coming along .
Very soon all the food in the house was eaten , and he knew he would have to go out and hunt for more .
Besides , he wished to seek for his parents .
The little girl did not like being left alone in the hut , and cried bitterly ; but her brother told her that there was no use sitting down quietly to starve , and that whether he found any game or not he would certainly be back before the following night .
Then he cut himself some arrows , each from a different tree , and winged with the feathers of four different birds .
He then made himself a bow , very light and strong , and got down his snow-shoes .
All this took some time , and he could not start that day , but early next morning he called his little dog Redmouth , whom he kept in a box , and set out .
After he had followed the trail for a great distance he grew very tired , and sat upon the branch of a tree to rest .
But Redmouth barked so furiously that the boy thought that perhaps his parents might have been killed under its branches , and stepping back , shot one of his arrows at the root of the tree .
Whereupon a noise like thunder shook it from top to bottom , fire broke out , and in a few minutes a little heap of ashes lay in the place where it had stood .
Not knowing quite what to make of it all , the boy continued on the trail , and went down the right-hand fork till he came to the clump of bushes where the bears used to hide .
Now , as was plain by his being able to change the shape of the two brothers , the bear chief knew a good deal of magic , and he was quite aware that the little boy was following the trail , and he sent a very small but clever bear servant to wait for him in the bushes and to try to tempt him into the mountain .
But somehow his spells could not have worked properly that day , as the bear chief did not know that Redmouth had gone with his master , or he would have been more careful .
For the moment the dog ran round the bushes barking loudly , the little bear servant rushed out in a fright , and set out for the mountains as fast as he could .
The dog followed the bear , and the boy followed the dog , until the mountain , the house of the great bear chief , came in sight .
But along the road the snow was so wet and heavy that the boy could hardly get along , and then the thong of his snow-shoes broke , and he had to stop and mend it , so that the bear and the dog got so far ahead that he could scarcely hear the barking .
When the strap was firm again the boy spoke to his snow-shoes and said : ` Now you must go as fast as you can , or , if not , I shall lose the dog as well as the bear . '
And the snow-shoes sang in answer that they would run like the wind .
As he came along , the bear chief 's sister was looking out of the window , and took pity on this little brother , as she had on the two elder ones , and waited to see what the boy would do , when he found that the bear servant and the dog had already entered the mountain .
The little brother was certainly very much puzzled at not seeing anything of either of the animals , which had vanished suddenly out of his sight .
He paused for an instant to think what he should do next , and while he did so he fancied he heard Redmouth 's voice on the opposite side of the mountain .
With great difficulty he scrambled over steep rocks , and forced a path through tangled thickets ; but when he reached the other side the sound appeared to start from the place from which he had come .
Then he had to go all the way back again , and at the very top , where he stopped to rest , the barking was directly beneath him , and he knew in an instant where he was and what had happened .
` Let my dog out at once , bear chief ! '
cried he .
` If you do not , I shall destroy your palace . '
But the bear chief only laughed , and said nothing .
The boy was very angry at his silence , and aiming one of his arrows at the bottom of the mountain , shot straight through it .
As the arrow touched the ground a rumbling was heard , and with a roar a fire broke out which seemed to split the whole mountain into pieces .
The bear chief and all his servants were burnt up in the flames , but his sister and all that belonged to her were spared because she had tried to save the two elder boys from punishment .
As soon as the fire had burnt itself out the little hunter entered what was left of the mountain , and the first thing he saw was his two brothers -- half bear , half boy .
` Oh , help us !
help us ! '
cried they , standing on their hind legs as they spoke , and stretching out their fore-paws to him .
` But how am I to help you ? '
asked the little brother , almost weeping . '
I can kill people , and destroy trees and mountains , but I have no power over men . '
And the two elder brothers came up and put their paws on his shoulders , and they all three wept together .
The heart of the bear chief 's sister was moved when she saw their misery , and she came gently up behind , and whispered : ` Little boy , gather some moss from the spring over there , and let your brothers smell it . '
With a bound all three were at the spring , and as the youngest plucked a handful of wet moss , the two others sniffed at it with all their might .
Then the bearskin fell away from them , and they stood upright once more .
` How can we thank you ?
how can we thank you ? '
they stammered , hardly able to speak ; and fell at her feet in gratitude .
But the bear 's sister only smiled , and bade them go home and look after the little girl , who had no one else to protect her .
And this the boys did , and took such good care of their sister that , as she was very small , she soon forgot that she had ever had a father and mother .
-LSB- From the Bureau of Ethnology , U.S. -RSB- The Sacred Milk of Koumongoe Far way , in a very hot country , there once lived a man and woman who had two children , a son named Koane and a daughter called Thakane .
Early in the morning and late in the evenings the parents worked hard in the fields , resting , when the sun was high , under the shade of some tree .
While they were absent the little girl kept house alone , for her brother always got up before the dawn , when the air was fresh and cool , and drove out the cattle to the sweetest patches of grass he could find .
One day , when Koane had slept later than usual , his father and mother went to their work before him , and there was only Thakane to be seen busy making the bread for supper .
` Thakane , ' he said , ' I am thirsty .
Give me a drink from the tree Koumongoe , which has the best milk in the world . '
` Oh , Koane , ' cried his sister , ` you know that we are forbidden to touch that tree .
What would father say when he came home ?
For he would be sure to know . '
` Nonsense , ' replied Koane , ` there is so much milk in Koumongoe that he will never miss a little .
If you wo n't give it to me , I sha 'n' t take the cattle out .
They will just have to stay all day in the hut , and you know that they will starve . '
And he turned from her in a rage , and sat down in the corner .
After a while Thakane said to him : ` It is getting hot , had you better drive out the cattle now ? '
But Koane only answered sulkily : ' I told you I am not going to drive them out at all .
If I have to do without milk , they shall do without grass . '
Thakane did not know what to do .
She was afraid to disobey her parents , who would most likely beat her , yet the beasts would be sure to suffer if they were kept in , and she would perhaps be beaten for that too .
So at last she took an axe and a tiny earthen bowl , she cut a very small hole in the side of Koumongoe , and out gushed enough milk to fill the bowl .
` Here is the milk you wanted , ' said she , going up to Koane , who was still sulking in his corner .
` What is the use of that ? '
grumbled Koane ; ` why , there is not enough to drown a fly .
Go and get me three times as much ! '
Trembling with fright , Thakane returned to the tree , and struck it a sharp blow with the axe .
In an instant there poured forth such a stream of milk that it ran like a river into the hut .
` Koane !
Koane ! '
cried she , ` come and help me to plug up the hole .
There will be no milk left for our father and mother . '
But Koane could not stop it any more than Thakane , and soon the milk was flowing through the hut downhill towards their parents in the fields below .
The man saw a white stream a long way off , and guessed what had happened .
` Wife , wife , ' he called loudly to the woman , who was working at a little distance : ` Do you see Koumongoe running fast down the hill ?
That is some mischief of the children 's , I am sure .
I must go home and find out what is the matter . '
And they both threw down their hoes and hurried to the side of Koumongoe .
Kneeling on the grass , the man and his wife made a cup of their hands and drank the milk from it .
And no sooner had they done this , than Koumongoe flowed back again up the hill , and entered the hut .
` Thakane , ' said the parents , severely , when they reached home panting from the heat of the sun , ` what have you been doing ?
Why did Koumongoe come to us in the fields instead of staying in the garden ? '
` It was Koane 's fault , ' answered Thakane .
` He would not take the cattle to feed until he drank some of the milk from Koumongoe .
So , as I did not know what else to do , I gave it to him . '
The father listened to Thakane 's words , but made no answer .
Instead , he went outside and brought in two sheepskins , which he stained red and sent for a blacksmith to forge some iron rings .
The rings were then passed over Thakane 's arms and legs and neck , and the skins fastened on her before and behind .
When all was ready , the man sent for his servants and said : ' I am going to get rid of Thakane . '
` Get rid of your only daughter ? '
they answered , in surprise .
` But why ? '
` Because she has eaten what she ought not to have eaten .
She has touched the sacred tree which belongs to her mother and me alone . '
And , turning his back , he called to Thakane to follow him , and they went down the road which led to the dwelling of an ogre .
They were passing along some fields where the corn was ripening , when a rabbit suddenly sprang out at their feet , and standing on its hind legs , it sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , ' replied the man , ` she is old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And when the rabbit heard that , he cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
But the father paid no heed to what the rabbit said , and only walked on the faster , bidding Thakane to keep close behind him .
By-and-by they met with a troop of great deer , called elands , and they stopped when they saw Thakane and sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , replied the man , ` she is old enough to give you an answer . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the elands all cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
By this time it was nearly dark , and the father said they could travel no further that night , and must go to sleep where they were .
Thakane was thankful indeed when she heard this , for she was very tired , and found the two skins fastened round her almost too heavy to carry .
So , in spite of her dread of the ogre , she slept till dawn , when her father woke her , and told her roughly that he was ready to continue their journey .
Crossing the plain , the girl and her father passed a herd of gazelles feeding .
They lifted their heads , wondering who was out so early , and when they caught sight of Thakane , they sang : Why do you give to the ogre Your child , so fair , so fair ?
` You had better ask her , replied the man , ` she is old enough to answer for herself . '
Then , in her turn , Thakane sang : I gave Koumongoe to Koane , Koumongoe to the keeper of beasts ; For without Koumongoe they could not go to the meadows : Without Koumongoe they would starve in the hut ; That was why I gave him the Koumongoe of my father .
And the gazelles all cried : ` Wretched man !
it is you whom the ogre should eat , and not your beautiful daughter . '
At last they arrived at the village where the ogre lived , and they went straight to his hut .
He was nowhere to be seen , but in his place was his son Masilo , who was not an ogre at all , but a very polite young man .
He ordered his servants to bring a pile of skins for Thakane to sit on , but told her father he must sit on the ground .
Then , catching sight of the girl 's face , which she had kept down , he was struck by its beauty , and put the same question that the rabbit , and the elands , and the gazelles had done .
Thakane answered him as before , and he instantly commanded that she should be taken to the hut of his mother , and placed under her care , while the man should be led to his father .
Directly the ogre saw him he bade the servant throw him into the great pot which always stood ready on the fire , and in five minutes he was done to a turn .
After that the servant returned to Masilo and related all that had happened .
Now Masilo had fallen in loved with Thakane the moment he saw her .
At first he did not know what to make of this strange feeling , for all his life he had hated women , and had refused several brides whom his parents had chosen for him .
However , they were so anxious that he should marry , that they willingly accepted Thakane as their daughter-in-law , though she did bring any marriage portion with her .
After some time a baby was born to her , and Thakane thought it was the most beautiful baby that ever was seen .
But when her mother-in-law saw it was a girl , she wrung her hands and wept , saying : ' O miserable mother !
Miserable child !
Alas for you !
why were you not a boy ! '
Thakane , in great surprise , asked the meaning of her distress ; and the old woman told her that it was the custom in that country that all the girls who were born should be given to the ogre to eat .
Then Thakane clasped the baby tightly in her arms , and cried : ` But it is not the customer in MY country !
There , when children die , they are buried in the earth .
No one shall take my baby from me . '
That night , when everyone in the hut was asleep , Thakane rose , and carrying her baby on her back , went down to a place where the river spread itself out into a large lake , with tall willows all round the bank .
Here , hidden from everyone , she sat down on a stone and began to think what she should do to save her child .
Suddenly she heard a rustling among the willows , and an old woman appeared before her .
` What are you crying for , my dear ? '
said she .
And Thakane answered : ' I was crying for my baby -- I can not hide her for ever , and if the ogre sees her , he will eat her ; and I would rather she was drowned than that . '
` What you say is true , ' replied the old woman .
` Give me your child , and let me take care of it .
And if you will fix a day to meet me here I will bring the baby . '
Then Thakane dried her eyes , and gladly accepted the old woman 's offer .
When she got home she told her husband she had thrown it in the river , and as he had watched her go in that direction he never thought of doubting what she said .
On the appointed day , Thakane slipped out when everybody was busy , and ran down the path that led to the lake .
As soon as she got there , she crouched down among the willows , and sang softly : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And in a moment the old woman appeared holding the baby in her arms .
Dilah had become so big and strong , that Thakane 's heart was filled with joy and gratitude , and she stayed as long as she dared , playing with her baby .
At last she felt she must return to the village , lest she should be missed , and the child was handed back to the old woman , who vanished with her into the lake .
Children grow up very quickly when they live under water , and in less time than anyone could suppose , Dilah had changed from a baby to a woman .
Her mother came to visit her whenever she was able , and one day , when they were sitting talking together , they were spied out by a man who had come to cut willows to weave into baskets .
He was so surprised to see how like the face of the girl was to Masilo , that he left his work and returned to the village .
` Masilo , ' he said , as he entered the hut , ' I have just beheld your wife near the river with a girl who must be your daughter , she is so like you .
We have been deceived , for we all thought she was dead . '
When he heard this , Masilo tried to look shocked because his wife had broken the law ; but in his heart he was very glad .
` But what shall we do now ? '
asked he .
` Make sure for yourself that I am speaking the truth by hiding among the bushes the first time Thakane says she is going to bathe in the river , and waiting till the girl appears . '
For some days Thakane stayed quietly at home , and her husband began to think that the man had been mistaken ; but at last she said to her husband : ' I am going to bathe in the river . '
` Well , you can go , ' answered he .
But he ran down quickly by another path , and got there first , and hid himself in the bushes .
An instant later , Thakane arrived , and standing on the bank , she sang : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
Then the old woman came out of the water , holding the girl , now tall and slender , by the hand .
And as Masilo looked , he saw that she was indeed his daughter , and he wept for joy that she was not lying dead in the bottom of the lake .
The old woman , however , seemed uneasy , and said to Thakane : ' I feel as if someone was watching us .
I will not leave the girl to-day , but will take her back with me ' ; and sinking beneath the surface , she drew the girl after her .
After they had gone , Thakane returned to the village , which Masilo had managed to reach before her .
All the rest of the day he sat in a corner weeping , and his mother who came in asked : ` Why are you weeping so bitterly , my son ? '
` My head aches , ' he answered ; ` it aches very badly . '
And his mother passed on , and left him alone .
In the evening he said to his wife : ' I have seen my daughter , in the place where you told me you had drowned her .
Instead , she lives at the bottom of the lake , and has now grown into a young woman . ' '
I do n't know what you are talking about , ' replied Thakane . '
I buried my child under the sand on the beach . '
Then Masilo implored her to give the child back to him ; but she would not listen , and only answered : ` If I were to give her back you would only obey the laws of your country and take her to your father , the ogre , and she would be eaten . '
But Masilo promised that he would never let his father see her , and that now she was a woman no one would try to hurt her ; so Thakane 's heart melted , and she went down to the lake to consult the old woman .
` What am I to do ? '
she asked , when , after clapping her hands , the old woman appeared before her .
` Yesterday Masilo beheld Dilah , and ever since he has entreated me to give him back his daughter . '
` If I let her go he must pay me a thousand head of cattle in exchange , ' replied the old woman .
And Thakane carried her answer back to Masilo .
` Why , I would gladly give her two thousand ! '
cried he , ` for she has saved my daughter . '
And he bade messengers hasten to all the neighbouring villages , and tell his people to send him at once all the cattle he possessed .
When they were all assembled he chose a thousand of the finest bulls and cows , and drove them down to the river , followed by a great crowd wondering what would happen .
Then Thakane stepped forward in front of the cattle and sang : Bring to me Dilah , Dilah the rejected one , Dilah , whom her father Masilo cast out !
And Dilah came from the waters holding out her hands to Masilo and Thakane , and in her place the cattle sank into the lake , and were driven by the old woman to the great city filled with people , which lies at the bottom .
-LSB- Contes Populaires des Bassoutos . -RSB-
The Wicked Wolverine One day a wolverine was out walking on the hill-side , when , on turning a corner , he suddenly saw a large rock .
` Was that you I heard walking about just now ? '
he asked , for wolverines are cautious animals , and always like to know the reasons of things .
` No , certainly not , ' answered the rock ; ' I do n't know how to walk . '
` But I SAW you walking , ' continued the wolverine . '
I am afraid that you were not taught to speak the truth , ' retorted the rock .
` You need not speak like that , for I have SEEN you walking , ' replied the wolverine , ` though I am quite sure that you could never catch ME ! '
and he ran a little distance and then stopped to see if the rock was pursuing him ; but , to his vexation , the rock was still in the same place .
Then the wolverine went up close , and struck the rock a blow with his paw , saying : ` Well , will you catch me NOW ? ' '
I ca n't walk , but I can ROLL , ' answered the rock .
And the wolverine laughed and said : ` Oh , that will do just as well ' ; and began to run down the side of the mountain .
At first he went quite slowly , ` just to give the rock a chance , ' he thought to himself ; but soon he quickened his pace , for he found that the rock was almost at his heels .
But the faster the wolverine ran , the faster the rock rolled , and by-and-by the little creature began to get very tired , and was sorry he had not left the rock to itself .
Thinking that if he could manage to put on a spurt he would reach the forest of great trees at the bottom of the mountain , where the rock could not come , he gathered up all his strength , and instead of running he leaped over sticks and stones , but , whatever he did , the rock was always close behind him .
At length he grew so weary that he could not even see where he was going , and catching his foot in a branch he tripped and fell .
The rock stopped at once , but there came a shriek from the wolverine : ` Get off , get off !
ca n't you see that you are on my legs ? '
` Why did you not leave me alone ? '
asked the rock . '
I did not want to move -- I hate moving .
But you WOULD have it , and I certainly sha 'n' t move now till I am forced to . ' '
I will call my brothers , ' answered the wolverine .
` There are many of them in the forest , and you will soon see that they are stronger than you . '
And he called , and called , and called , till wolves and foxes and all sorts of other creatures all came running to see what was the matter .
` How DID you get under that rock ? '
asked they , making a ring round him ; but they had to repeat their question several times before the wolverine would answer , for he , like many other persons , found it hard to confess that he had brought his troubles on himself .
` Well , I was dull , and wanted someone to play with me , ' he said at last , in sulky voice , ` and I challenged the rock to catch me .
Of course I thought I could run the fastest ; but I tripped , and it rolled on me .
It was just an accident . '
` It serves you right for being so silly , ' said they ; but they pushed and hauled at the rock for a long time without making it move an inch .
` You are no good at all , ' cried the wolverine crossly , for it was suffering great pain , ` and if you can not get me free , I shall see what my friends the lightning and thunder can do . '
And he called loudly to the lightning to come and help him as quickly as possible .
In a few minutes a dark cloud came rolling up the sky , giving out such terrific claps of thunder that the wolves and the foxes and all the other creatures ran helter-skelter in all directions .
But , frightened though they were , they did not forget to beg the lightning to take off the wolverine 's coat and to free his legs , but to be careful not to hurt him .
So the lightning disappeared into the cloud for a moment to gather up fresh strength , and then came rushing down , right upon the rock , which it sent flying in all directions , and took the wolverine 's coat so neatly that , though it was torn into tiny shreds , the wolverine himself was quite unharmed .
` That was rather clumsy of you , ' said he , standing up naked in his flesh .
` Surely you could have split the rock without tearing my coat to bits ! '
And he stooped down to pick up the pieces .
It took him a long time , for there were a great many of them , but at last he had them all in his hand .
` I 'll go to my sister the frog , ' he thought to himself , ` and she will sew them together for me ' ; and he set off at once for the swamp in which his sister lived .
` Will you sew my coat together ?
I had an unlucky accident , and it is quite impossible to wear , ' he said , when he found her .
` With pleasure , ' she answered , for she had always been taught to be polite ; and getting her needle and thread she began to fit the pieces .
But though she was very good-natured , she was not very clever , and she got some of the bits wrong .
When the wolverine , who was very particular about his clothes , came to put it on , he grew very angry .
` What a useless creature you are ! '
cried he .
` Do you expect me to go about in such a coat as that ?
Why it bulges all down the back , as if I had a hump , and it is so tight across the chest that I expect it to burst every time I breathe .
I knew you were stupid , but I did not think you were as stupid as that . '
And giving the poor frog a blow on her head , which knocked her straight into the water , he walked off in a rage to his younger sister the mouse . '
I tore my coat this morning , ' he began , when he had found her sitting at the door of her house eating an apple .
` It was all in little bits , and I took it to our sister the frog to ask her to sew it for me .
But just look at the way she has done it !
You will have to take it to pieces and fit them together properly , and I hope I shall not have to complain again . '
For as the wolverine was older than the mouse , he was accustomed to speak to her in this manner .
However , the mouse was used to it and only answered : ' I think you had better stay here till it is done , and if there is any alteration needed I can make it . '
So the wolverine sat down on a heap of dry ferns , and picking up the apple , he finished it without even asking the mouse 's leave .
At last the coat was ready , and the wolverine put it on .
` Yes , it fits very well , ' said he , ` and you have sewn it very neatly .
When I pass this way again I will bring you a handful of corn , as a reward ' ; and he ran off as smart as ever , leaving the mouse quite grateful behind him .
He wandered about for many days , till he reached a place where food was very scarce , and for a whole week he went without any .
He was growing desperate , when he suddenly came upon a bear that was lying asleep .
` Ah !
here is food at last ! '
thought he ; but how was he to kill the bear , who was so much bigger than himself ?
It was no use to try force , he must invent some cunning plan which would get her into his power .
At last , after thinking hard , he decided upon something , and going up to the bear , he exclaimed : ` Is that you , my sister ? '
The bear turned round and saw the wolverine , and murmuring to herself , so low that nobody could hear , ' I never heard before that I had a brother , ' got up and ran quickly to a tree , up which she climbed .
Now the wolverine was very angry when he saw his dinner vanishing in front of him , especially as HE could not climb trees like the bear , so he followed , and stood at the foot of the tree , shrieking as loud as he could , ` Come down , sister ; our father has sent me to look for you !
You were lost when you were a little girl and went out picking berries , and it was only the other day that we heard from a beaver where you were . '
At these words , the bear came a little way down the tree , and the wolverine , seeing this , went on : ` Are you not fond of berries ?
I am !
And I know a place where they grow so thick the ground is quite hidden .
Why , look for yourself !
That hillside is quite red with them ! ' '
I ca n't see so far , ' answered the bear , now climbing down altogether .
` You must have wonderfully good eyes !
I wish I had ; but my sight is very short . '
` So was mine till my father smashed a pailful of cranberries , and rubbed my eyes with them , ' replied the wolverine .
` But if you like to go and gather some of the berries I will do just as he did , and you will soon be able to see as far as me . '
It took the bear a long while to gather the berries , for she was slow about everything , and , besides , it made her back ache to stoop .
But at last she returned with a sackful , and put them down beside the wolverine .
` That is splendid , sister ! '
cried the wolverine .
` Now lie flat on the ground with your head on this stone , while I smash them . '
The bear , who was very tired , was only too glad to do as she was bid , and stretched herself comfortably on the grass . '
I am ready now , ' said the wolverine after a bit ; ` just at first you will find that the berries make your eyes smart , but you must be careful not to move , or the juice will run out , and then it will have to be done all over again . '
So the bear promised to lie very still ; but the moment the cranberries touched her eyes she sprang up with a roar .
` Oh , you must n't mind a little pain , ' said the wolverine , ` it will soon be over , and then you will see all sorts of things you have never dreamt of . '
The bear sank down with a groan , and as her eyes were full of cranberry juice , which completely blinded her , the wolverine took up a sharp knife and stabbed her to the heart .
Then he took off the skin , and , stealing some fire from a tent , which his sharp eyes had perceived hidden behind a rock , he set about roasting the bear bit by bit .
He thought the meat was the best he ever had tasted , and when dinner was done he made up his mind to try that same trick again , if ever he was hungry .
And very likely he did !
-LSB- Adapted from Bureau of Ethnology . -RSB-
The Husband of the Rat 's Daughter Once upon a time there lived in Japan a rat and his wife who came of an old and noble race , and had one daughter , the loveliest girl in all the rat world .
Her parents were very proud of her , and spared no pains to teach her all she ought to know .
There was not another young lady in the whole town who was as clever as she was in gnawing through the hardest wood , or who could drop from such a height on to a bed , or run away so fast if anyone was heard coming .
Great attention , too , was paid to her personal appearance , and her skin shone like satin , while her teeth were as white as pearls , and beautifully pointed .
Of course , with all these advantages , her parents expected her to make a brilliant marriage , and , as she grew up , they began to look round for a suitable husband .
But here a difficulty arose .
The father was a rat from the tip of his nose to the end of his tail , outside as well as in , and desired that his daughter should wed among her own people .
She had no lack of lovers , but her father 's secret hopes rested on a fine young rat , with moustaches which almost swept the ground , whose family was still nobler and more ancient than his own .
Unluckily , the mother had other views for her precious child .
She was one of those people who always despise their own family and surroundings , and take pleasure in thinking that they themselves are made of finer material than the rest of the world .
` HER daughter should never marry a mere rat , ' she declared , holding her head high .
` With her beauty and talents she had a right to look for someone a little better than THAT . '
So she talked , as mothers will , to anyone that would listen to her .
What the girl thought about the matter nobody knew or cared -- it was not the fashion in the rat world .
Many were the quarrels which the old rat and his wife had upon the subject , and sometimes they bore on their faces certain marks which looked as if they had not kept to words only .
` Reach up to the stars is MY motto , ' cried the lady one day , when she was in a greater passion than usual .
` My daughter 's beauty places her higher than anything upon earth , ' she cried ; ` and I am certainly not going to accept a son-in-law who is beneath her . '
` Better offer her in marriage to the sun , ' answered her husband impatiently .
` As far as I know there is nothing greater than he . '
` Well , I WAS thinking of it , ' replied the wife , ` and as you are of the same mind , we will pay him a visit to-morrow . '
So the next morning , the two rats , having spent hours in making themselves smart , set out to see the sun , leading their daughter between them .
The journey took some time , but at length they came to the golden palace where the sun lived .
` Noble king , ' began the mother , ` behold our daughter !
She is so beautiful that she is above everything in the whole world .
Naturally , we wish for a son-in-law who , on his side , is greater than all .
Therefore we have come to you . ' '
I feel very much flattered , ' replied the sun , who was so busy that he had not the least wish to marry anybody .
` You do me great honour by your proposal .
Only , in one point you are mistaken , and it would be wrong of me to take advantage of your ignorance .
There is something greater than I am , and that is the cloud .
Look ! '
And as he spoke a cloud spread itself over the sun 's face , blotting out his rays .
` Oh , well , we will speak to the cloud , ' said the mother .
And turning to the cloud she repeated her proposal .
` Indeed I am unworthy of anything so charming , ' answered the cloud ; ` but you make a mistake again in what you say .
There is one thing that is even more powerful than I , and that is the wind .
Ah , here he comes , you can see for yourself . '
And she DID see , for catching up the cloud as he passed , he threw it on the other side of the sky .
Then , tumbling father , mother and daughter down to the earth again , he paused for a moment beside them , his foot on an old wall .
When she had recovered her breath , the mother began her little speech once more .
` The wall is the proper husband for your daughter , ' answered the wind , whose home consisted of a cave , which he only visited when he was not rushing about elsewhere ; ` you can see for yourself that he is greater than I , for he has power to stop me in my flight . '
And the mother , who did not trouble to conceal her wishes , turned at once to the wall .
Then something happened which was quite unexpected by everyone . '
I wo n't marry that ugly old wall , which is as old as my grandfather , ' sobbed the girl , who had not uttered one word all this time . '
I would have married the sun , or the cloud , or the wind , because it was my duty , although I love the handsome young rat , and him only .
But that horrid old wall -- I would sooner die ! '
And the wall , rather hurt in his feelings , declared that he had no claim to be the husband of so beautiful a girl .
` It is quite true , ' he said , ` that I can stop the wind who can part the clouds who can cover the sun ; but there is someone who can do more than all these , and that is the rat .
It is the rat who passes through me , and can reduce me to powder , simply with his teeth .
If , therefore , you want a son-in-law who is greater than the whole world , seek him among the rats . '
` Ah , what did I tell you ? '
cried the father .
And his wife , though for the moment angry at being beaten , soon thought that a rat son-in-law was what she had always desired .
So all three returned happily home , and the wedding was celebrated three days after .
-LSB- Contes Populaires . -RSB-
The Mermaid and the Boy Long , long ago , there lived a king who ruled over a country by the sea .
When he had been married about a year , some of his subjects , inhabiting a distant group of islands , revolted against his laws , and it became needful for him to leave his wife and go in person to settle their disputes .
The queen feared that some ill would come of it , and implored him to stay at home , but he told her that nobody could do his work for him , and the next morning the sails were spread , and the king started on his voyage .
The vessel had not gone very far when she ran upon a rock , and stuck so fast in a cleft that the strength of the whole crew could not get her off again .
To make matters worse , the wind was rising too , and it was quite plain that in a few hours the ship would be dashed to pieces and everybody would be drowned , when suddenly the form of a mermaid was seen dancing on the waves which threatened every moment to overwhelm them .
` There is only one way to free yourselves , ' she said to the king , bobbing up and down in the water as she spoke , ` and that is to give me your solemn word that you will deliver to me the first child that is born to you . '
The king hesitated at this proposal .
He hoped that some day he might have children in his home , and the thought that he must yield up the heir to his crown was very bitter to him ; but just then a huge wave broke with great force on the ship 's side , and his men fell on their knees and entreated him to save them .
So he promised , and this time a wave lifted the vessel clean off the rocks , and she was in the open sea once more .
The affairs of the islands took longer to settle than the king had expected , and some months passed away before he returned to his palace .
In his absence a son had been born to him , and so great was his joy that he quite forgot the mermaid and the price he had paid for the safety of his ship .
But as the years went on , and the baby grew into a fine big boy , the remembrance of it came back , and one day he told the queen the whole story .
From that moment the happiness of both their lives was ruined .
Every night they went to bed wondering if they should find his room empty in the morning , and every day they kept him by their sides , expecting him to be snatched away before their very eyes .
At last the king felt that this state of things could not continue , and he said to his wife : ` After all , the most foolish thing in the world one can do is to keep the boy here in exactly the place in which the mermaid will seek him .
Let us give him food and send him on his travels , and perhaps , if the mermaid ever blocs come to seek him , she may be content with some other child . '
And the queen agreed that his plan seemed the wisest .
So the boy was called , and his father told him the story of the voyage , as he had told his mother before him .
The prince listened eagerly , and was delighted to think that he was to go away all by himself to see the world , and was not in the least frightened ; for though he was now sixteen , he had scarcely been allowed to walk alone beyond the palace gardens .
He began busily to make his preparations , and took off his smart velvet coat , putting on instead one of green cloth , while he refused a beautiful bag which the queen offered him to hold his food , and slung a leather knapsack over his shoulders instead , just as he had seen other travellers do .
Then he bade farewell to his parents and went his way .
All through the day he walked , watching with interest the strange birds and animals that darted across his path in the forest or peeped at him from behind a bush .
But as evening drew on he became tired , and looked about as he walked for some place where he could sleep .
At length he reached a soft mossy bank under a tree , and was just about to stretch himself out on it , when a fearful roar made him start and tremble all over .
In another moment something passed swiftly through the air and a lion stood before him .
` What are you doing here ? '
asked the lion , his eyes glaring fiercely at the boy . '
I am flying from the mermaid , ' the prince answered , in a quaking voice .
` Give me some food then , ' said the lion , ` it is past my supper time , and I am very hungry . '
The boy was so thankful that the lion did not want to eat him , that he gladly picked up his knapsack which lay on the ground , and held out some bread and a flask of wine . '
I feel better now , ' said the lion when he had done , ` so now I shall go to sleep on this nice soft moss , and if you like you can lie down beside me . '
So the boy and the lion slept soundly side by side , till the sun rose . '
I must be off now , ' remarked the lion , shaking the boy as he spoke ; ` but cut off the tip of my ear , and keep it carefully , and if you are in any danger just wish yourself a lion and you will become one on the spot .
One good turn deserves another , you know . '
The prince thanked him for his kindness , and did as he was bid , and the two then bade each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feels to be a lion , ' thought the boy , after he had gone a little way ; and he took out the tip of the ear from the breast of his jacket and wished with all his might .
In an instant his head had swollen to several times its usual size , and his neck seemed very hot and heavy ; and , somehow , his hands became paws , and his skin grew hairy and yellow .
But what pleased him most was his long tail with a tuft at the end , which he lashed and switched proudly . '
I like being a lion very much , ' he said to himself , and trotted gaily along the road .
After a while , however , he got tired of walking in this unaccustomed way -- it made his back ache and his front paws felt sore .
So he wished himself a boy again , and in the twinkling of an eye his tail disappeared and his head shrank , and the long thick mane became short and curly .
Then he looked out for a sleeping place , and found some dry ferns , which he gathered and heaped up .
But before he had time to close his eyes there was a great noise in the trees near by , as if a big heavy body was crashing through them .
The boy rose and turned his head , and saw a huge black bear coming towards him .
` What are you doing here ? '
cried the bear . '
I am running away from the mermaid , ' answered the boy ; but the bear took no interest in the mermaid , and only said : ' I am hungry ; give me something to eat . '
The knapsack was lying on the ground among the fern , but the prince picked it up , and , unfastening the strap , took out his second flask of wine and another loaf of bread .
` We will have supper together , ' he remarked politely ; but the bear , who had never been taught manners , made no reply , and ate as fast as he could .
When he had quite finished , he got up and stretched himself .
` You have got a comfortable-looking bed there , ' he observed . '
I really think that , bad sleeper as I am , I might have a good night on it .
I can manage to squeeze you in , ' he added ; ` you do n't take up a great deal of room . '
The boy was rather indignant at the bear 's cool way of talking ; but as he was too tired to gather more fern , they lay down side by side , and never stirred till sunrise next morning . '
I must go now , ' said the bear , pulling the sleepy prince on to his feet ; ` but first you shall cut off the tip of my ear , and when you are in any danger just wish yourself a bear and you will become one .
One good turn deserves another , you know . '
And the boy did as he was bid , and he and the bear bade each other farewell . '
I wonder how it feels to be a bear , ' thought he to himself when he had walked a little way ; and he took out the tip from the breast of his coat and wished hard that he might become a bear .
The next moment his body stretched out and thick black fur covered him all over .
As before , his hands were changed into paws , but when he tried to switch his tail he found to his disgust that it would not go any distance .
` Why it is hardly worth calling a tail ! '
said he .
For the rest of the day he remained a bear and continued his journey , but as evening came on the bear-skin , which had been so useful when plunging through brambles in the forest , felt rather heavy , and he wished himself a boy again .
He was too much exhausted to take the trouble of cutting any fern or seeking for moss , but just threw himself down under a tree , when exactly above his head he heard a great buzzing as a bumble-bee alighted on a honeysuckle branch .
` What are you doing here ? '
asked the bee in a cross voice ; ` at your age you ought to be safe at home . ' '
I am running away from the mermaid , ' replied the boy ; but the bee , like the lion and the bear , was one of those people who never listen to the answers to their questions , and only said : ' I am hungry .
Give me something to eat . '
The boy took his last loaf and flask out of his knapsack and laid them on the ground , and they had supper together .
` Well , now I am going to sleep , ' observed the bee when the last crumb was gone , ` but as you are not very big I can make room for you beside me , ' and he curled up his wings , and tucked in his legs , and he and the prince both slept soundly till morning .
Then the bee got up and carefully brushed every scrap of dust off his velvet coat and buzzed loudly in the boy 's ear to waken him .
` Take a single hair from one of my wings , ' said he , ` and if you are in danger just wish yourself a bee and you will become one .
One good turn deserves another , so farewell , and thank you for your supper . '
And the bee departed after the boy had pulled out the hair and wrapped it carefully in a leaf .
` It must feel quite different to be a bee from what it does to be a lion or bear , ' thought the boy to himself when he had walked for an hour or two . '
I dare say I should get on a great deal faster , ' so he pulled out his hair and wished himself a bee .
In a moment the strangest thing happened to him .
All his limbs seemed to draw together , and his body to become very short and round ; his head grew quite tiny , and instead of his white skin he was covered with the richest , softest velvet .
Better than all , he had two lovely gauze wings which carried him the whole day without getting tired .
Late in the afternoon the boy fancied he saw a vast heap of stones a long way off , and he flew straight towards it .
But when he reached the gates he saw that it was really a great town , so he wished himself back in his own shape and entered the city .
He found the palace doors wide open and went boldly into a sort of hall which was full of people , and where men and maids were gossiping together .
He joined their talk and soon learned from them that the king had only one daughter who had such a hatred to men that she would never suffer one to enter her presence .
Her father was in despair , and had had pictures painted of the handsomest princes of all the courts in the world , in the hope that she might fall in love with one of them ; but it was no use ; the princess would not even allow the pictures to be brought into her room .
` It is late , ' remarked one of the women at last ; ' I must go to my mistress . '
And , turning to one of the lackeys , she bade him find a bed for the youth .
` It is not necessary , ' answered the prince , ` this bench is good enough for me .
I am used to nothing better . '
And when the hall was empty he lay down for a few minutes .
But as soon as everything was quiet in the palace he took out the hair and wished himself a bee , and in this shape he flew upstairs , past the guards , and through the keyhole into the princess 's chamber .
Then he turned himself into a man again .
At this dreadful sight the princess , who was broad awake , began to scream loudly . '
A man !
a man ! '
cried she ; but when the guards rushed in there was only a bumble-bee buzzing about the room .
They looked under the bed , and behind the curtains , and into the cupboards , then came to the conclusion that the princess had had a bad dream , and bowed themselves out .
The door had scarcely closed on them than the bee disappeared , and a handsome youth stood in his place . '
I knew a man was hidden somewhere , ' cried the princess , and screamed more loudly than before .
Her shrieks brought back the guards , but though they looked in all kinds of impossible places no man was to be seen , and so they told the princess .
` He was here a moment ago -- I saw him with my own eyes , ' and the guards dared not contradict her , though they shook their heads and whispered to each other that the princess had gone mad on this subject , and saw a man in every table and chair .
And they made up their minds that -- let her scream as loudly as she might -- they would take no notice .
Now the princess saw clearly what they were thinking , and that in future her guards would give her no help , and would perhaps , besides , tell some stories about her to the king , who would shut her up in a lonely tower and prevent her walking in the gardens among her birds and flowers .
So when , for the third time , she beheld the prince standing before her , she did not scream but sat up in bed gazing at him in silent terror .
` Do not be afraid , ' he said , ' I shall not hurt you ' ; and he began to praise her gardens , of which he had heard the servants speak , and the birds and flowers which she loved , till the princess 's anger softened , and she answered him with gentle words .
Indeed , they soon became so friendly that she vowed she would marry no one else , and confided to him that in three days her father would be off to the wars , leaving his sword in her room .
If any man could find it and bring it to him he would receive her hand as a reward .
At this point a cock crew , and the youth jumped up hastily saying : ` Of course I shall ride with the king to the war , and if I do not return , take your violin every evening to the seashore and play on it , so that the very sea-kobolds who live at the bottom of the ocean may hear it and come to you . '
Just as the princess had foretold , in three days the king set out for the war with a large following , and among them was the young prince , who had presented himself at court as a young noble in search of adventures .
They had left the city many miles behind them , when the king suddenly discovered that he had forgotten his sword , and though all his attendants instantly offered theirs , he declared that he could fight with none but his own .
` The first man who brings it to me from my daughter 's room , ' cried he , ` shall not only have her to wife , but after my death shall reign in my stead . '
At this the Red Knight , the young prince , and several more turned their horses to ride as fast as the wind back to the palace .
But suddenly a better plan entered the prince 's head , and , letting the others pass him , he took his precious parcel from his breast and wished himself a lion .
Then on he bounded , uttering such dreadful roars that the horses were frightened and grew unmanageable , and he easily outstripped them , and soon reached the gates of the palace .
Here he hastily changed himself into a bee , and flew straight into the princess 's room , where he became a man again .
She showed him where the sword hung concealed behind a curtain , and he took it down , saying as he did so : ` Be sure not to forget what you have promised to do . '
The princess made no reply , but smiled sweetly , and slipping a golden ring from her finger she broke it in two and held half out silently to the prince , while the other half she put in her own pocket .
He kissed it , and ran down the stairs bearing the sword with him .
Some way off he met the Red Knight and the rest , and the Red Knight at first tried to take the sword from him by force .
But as the youth proved too strong for him , he gave it up , and resolved to wait for a better opportunity .
This soon came , for the day was hot and the prince was thirsty .
Perceiving a little stream that ran into the sea , he turned aside , and , unbuckling the sword , flung himself on the ground for a long drink .
Unluckily , the mermaid happened at that moment to be floating on the water not very far off , and knew he was the boy who had been given her before he was born .
So she floated gently in to where he was lying , she seized him by the arm , and the waves closed over them both .
Hardly had they disappeared , when the Red Knight stole cautiously up , and could hardly believe his eyes when he saw the king 's sword on the bank .
He wondered what had become of the youth , who an hour before had guarded his treasure so fiercely ; but , after all , that was no affair of his !
So , fastening the sword to his belt , he carried it to the king .
The war was soon over , and the king returned to his people , who welcomed him with shouts of joy .
But when the princess from her window saw that her betrothed was not among the attendants riding behind her father , her heart sank , for she knew that some evil must have befallen him , and she feared the Red Knight .
She had long ago learned how clever and how wicked he was , and something whispered to her that it was he who would gain the credit of having carried back the sword , and would claim her as his bride , though he had never even entered her chamber .
And she could do nothing ; for although the king loved her , he never let her stand in the way of his plans .
The poor princess was only too right , and everything came to pass exactly as she had foreseen it .
The king told her that the Red Knight had won her fairly , and that the wedding would take place next day , and there would be a great feast after it .
In those days feasts were much longer and more splendid than they are now ; and it was growing dark when the princess , tired out with all she had gone through , stole up to her own room for a little quiet .
But the moon was shining so brightly over the sea that it seemed to draw her towards it , and taking her violin under her arm , she crept down to the shore .
` Listen !
listen !
said the mermaid to the prince , who was lying stretched on a bed of seaweeds at the bottom of the sea .
` Listen !
that is your old love playing , for mermaids know everything that happens upon earth . ' '
I hear nothing , ' answered the youth , who did not look happy .
` Take me up higher , where the sounds can reach me . '
So the mermaid took him on her shoulders and bore him up midway to the surface .
` Can you hear now ? '
she asked .
` No , ' answered the prince , ' I hear nothing but the water rushing ; I must go higher still . '
Then the mermaid carried him to the very top .
` You must surely be able to hear now ? '
said she .
` Nothing but the water , ' repeated the youth .
So she took him right to the land .
` At any rate you can hear now ? '
she said again .
` The water is still rushing in my ears , ' answered he ; ` but wait a little , that will soon pass off . '
And as he spoke he put his hand into his breast , and seizing the hair wished himself a bee , and flew straight into the pocket of the princess .
The mermaid looked in vain for him , and coated all night upon the sea ; but he never came back , and never more did he gladden her eyes .
But the princess felt that something strange was about her , though she knew not what , and returned quickly to the palace , where the young man at once resumed his own shape .
Oh , what joy filled her heart at the sight of him !
But there was no time to be lost , and she led him right into the hall , where the king and his nobles were still sitting at the feast .
` Here is a man who boasts that he can do wonderful tricks , ' said she , ` better even than the Red Knight 's !
That can not be true , of course , but it might be well to give this impostor a lesson .
He pretends , for instance , that he can turn himself into a lion ; but that I do not believe .
I know that you have studied the art of magic , ' she went on , turning to the Red Knight , ` so suppose you just show him how it is done , and bring shame upon him . '
Now the Red Knight had never opened a book of magic in his life ; but he was accustomed to think that he could do everything better than other people without any teaching at all .
So he turned and twisted himself about , and bellowed and made faces ; but he did not become a lion for all that .
` Well , perhaps it is very difficult to change into a lion .
Make yourself a bear , ' said the princess .
But the Red Knight found it no easier to become a bear than a lion .
` Try a bee , ' suggested she . '
I have always read that anyone who can do magic at all can do that . '
And the old knight buzzed and hummed , but he remained a man and not a bee .
` Now it is your turn , ' said the princess to the youth .
` Let us see if you can change yourself into a lion . '
And in a moment such a fierce creature stood before them , that all the guests rushed out of the hall , treading each other underfoot in their fright .
The lion sprang at the Red Knight , and would have torn him in pieces had not the princess held him back , and bidden him to change himself into a man again .
And in a second a man took the place of the lion .
` Now become a bear , ' said she ; and a bear advanced panting and stretching out his arms to the Red Knight , who shrank behind the princess .
By this time some of the guests had regained their courage , and returned as far as the door , thinking that if it was safe for the princess perhaps it was safe for them .
The king , who was braver than they , and felt it needful to set them a good example besides , had never left his seat , and when at a new command of the princess the bear once more turned into a man , he was silent from astonishment , and a suspicion of the truth began to dawn on him .
` Was it he who fetched the sword ? '
asked the king .
` Yes , it was , ' answered the princess ; and she told him the whole story , and how she had broken her gold ring and given him half of it .
And the prince took out his half of the ring , and the princess took out hers , and they fitted exactly .
Next day the Red Knight was hanged , as he richly deserved , and there was a new marriage feast for the prince and princess .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Pivi and Kabo When birds were men , and men were birds , Pivi and Kabo lived in an island far away , called New Claledonia .
Pivi was a cheery little bird that chirps at sunset ; Kabo was an ugly black fowl that croaks in the darkness .
One day Pivi and Kabo thought that they would make slings , and practice slinging , as the people of the island still do .
So they went to a banyan tree , and stripped the bark to make strings for their slings , and next they repaired to the river bank to find stones .
Kabo stood on the bank of the river , and Pivi went into the water .
The game was for Kabo to sling at Pivi , and for Pivi to dodge the stones , if he could .
For some time he dodged them cleverly , but at last a stone from Kabo 's sling hit poor Pivi on the leg and broke it .
Down went Pivi into the stream , and floated along it , till he floated into a big hollow bamboo , which a woman used for washing her sweet potatoes .
` What is that in my bamboo ? '
said the woman .
And she blew in at one end , and blew little Pivi out at the other , like a pea from a pea-shooter .
` Oh ! '
cried the woman , ` what a state you are in !
What have you been doing ? '
` It was Kabo who broke my leg at the slinging game , ' said Pivi .
` Well , I am sorry for you , ' said the woman ; ` will you come with me , and do what I tell you ? ' '
I will ! '
said Pivi , for the woman was very kind and pretty .
She took Pivi into a shed where she kept her fruit laid him on a bed of mats , and made him as comfortable as she could , and attended to his broken leg without cutting off the flesh round the bone , as these people usually do .
` You will be still , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
she said .
` If you hear a little noise you will pretend to be dead .
It is the Black Ant who will come and creep from your feet up to your head .
Say nothing , and keep quiet , wo n't you , Pivi ? '
` Certainly , kind lady , ' said Pivi , ' I will lie as still as can be . '
` Next will come the big Red Ant -- you know him ? '
` Yes , I know him , with his feet like a grasshopper 's . '
` He will walk over your body up to your head .
Then you must shake all your body .
Do you understand , Pivi ? '
` Yes , dear lady , I shall do just as you say . '
` Very good , ' said the woman , going out and shutting the door .
Pivi lay still under his coverings , then a tiny noise was heard , and the Black Ant began to march over Pivi , who lay quite still .
Then came the big Red Ant skipping along his body , and then Pivi shook himself all over .
He jumped up quite well again , he ran to the river , he looked into the water and saw that he was changed from a bird into a fine young man !
` Oh , lady , ' he cried , ` look at me now !
I am changed into a man , and so handsome ! '
` Will you obey me again ? '
said the woman .
` Always ; whatever you command I will do it , ' said Pivi , politely .
` Then climb up that cocoa-nut tree , with your legs only , not using your hands , ' said the woman .
Now the natives can run up cocoa-nut trees like squirrels , some using only one hand ; the girls can do that .
But few can climb without using their hands at all .
` At the top of the tree you will find two cocoa-nuts .
You must not throw them down , but carry them in your hands ; and you must descend as you went up , using your legs only . ' '
I shall try , at least , ' said Pivi .
And up he went , but it was very difficult , and down he came .
` Here are your cocoa-nuts , ' he said , presenting them to the woman .
` Now , Pivi , put them in the shed where you lay , and when the sun sets to cool himself in the sea and rise again not so hot in the dawn you must go and take the nuts . '
All day Pivi played about in the river , as the natives do , throwing fruit and silvery showers of water at each other .
When the sun set he went into the hut .
But as he drew near he heard sweet voices talking and laughing within .
` What is that ?
People chattering in the hut !
Perhaps they have taken my cocoa-nuts , ' said Pivi to himself .
In he went , and there he found two pretty , laughing , teasing girls .
He hunted for his cocoanuts , but none were there .
Down he ran to the river .
` Oh , lady , my nuts have been stolen ! '
he cried .
` Come with me , Pivi , and there will be nuts for you , ' said the woman .
They went back to the hut , where the girls were laughing and playing .
` Nuts for you ? '
said the woman , ` there are two wives for you , Pivi , take them to your house . '
` Oh , good lady , ' cried Pivi , ` how kind you are ! '
So they were married and very happy , when in came cross old Kabo .
` Is this Pivi ? '
said he .
` Yes , it is -- no , it is n't .
It is not the same Pivi -- but there is a kind of likeness .
Tell me , are you Pivi ? '
` Oh , yes ! '
said Pivi .
` But I am much better looking , and there are my two wives , are they not beautiful ? '
` You are mocking me , Pivi !
Your wives ?
How ?
Where did you get them ?
You , with wives ! '
Then Pivi told Kabo about the kind woman , and all the wonderful things that had happened to him .
` Well , well ! '
said Kabo , ` but I want to be handsome too , and to have pretty young wives . '
` But how can we manage that ? '
asked Pivi .
` Oh , we shall do all the same things over again -- play at slinging , and , this time , you shall break my leg , Pivi ! '
` With all the pleasure in life , ' said Pivi , who was always ready to oblige .
So they went slinging , and Pivi broke Kabo 's leg , and Kabo fell into the river , and floated into the bamboo , and the woman blew him out , just as before .
Then she picked up Kabo , and put him in the shed , and told him what to do when the Black Ant came , and what to do when the Red Ant came .
But he did n't !
When the Black Ant came , he shook himself , and behold , he had a twisted leg , and a hump back , and was as black as the ant .
Then he ran to the woman .
` Look , what a figure I am ! '
he said ; but she only told him to climb the tree , as she had told Pivi .
But Kabo climbed with both hands and feet , and he threw down the nuts , instead of carrying them down , and he put them in the hut .
And when he went back for them there he found two horrid old black hags , wrangling , and scolding , and scratching !
So back he went to Pivi with his two beautiful wives , and Pivi was very sorry , but what could he do ?
Nothing , but sit and cry .
So , one day , Kabo came and asked Pivi to sail in his canoe to a place where he knew of a great big shell-fish , enough to feed on for a week .
Pivi went , and deep in the clear water they saw a monstrous shell-fish , like an oyster , as big as a rock , with the shell wide open .
` We shall catch it , and dry it , and kipper it , ' said Pivi , ` and give a dinner to all our friends ! ' '
I shall dive for it , and break it off the rock , ' said Kabo , ` and then you must help me to drag it up into the canoe . '
There the shell-fish lay and gaped , but Kabo , though he dived in , kept well out of the way of the beast .
Up he came , puffing and blowing : ` Oh , Pivi , ' he cried , ' I can not move it .
Jump in and try yourself ! '
Pivi dived , with his spear , and the shell-fish opened its shell wider yet , and sucked , and Pivi disappeared into its mouth , and the shell shut up with a snap !
Kabo laughed like a fiend , and then went home .
` Where is Pivi ? '
asked the two pretty girls .
Kabo pretended to cry , and told how Pivi had been swallowed .
` But dry your tears , my darlings , ' said Kabo , ' I will be your husband , and my wives shall be your slaves .
Everything is for the best , in the best of all possible worlds . '
` No , no ! '
cried the girls , ` we love Pivi .
We do not love anyone else .
We shall stay at home , and weep for Pivi ! '
` Wretched idiots ! '
cried Kabo ; ` Pivi was a scoundrel who broke my leg , and knocked me into the river . '
Then a little cough was heard at the door , and Kabo trembled , for he knew it was the cough of Pivi !
` Ah , dear Pivi ! '
cried Kabo , rushing to the door .
` What joy !
I was trying to console your dear wives . '
Pivi said not one word .
He waved his hand , and five and twenty of his friends came trooping down the hill .
They cut up Kabo into little pieces .
Pivi turned round , and there was the good woman of the river .
` Pivi , ' she said , ` how did you get out of the living tomb into which Kabo sent you ? ' '
I had my spear with me , ' said Pivi .
` It was quite dry inside the shell , and I worked away at the fish with my spear , till he saw reason to open his shell , and out I came . '
Then the good woman laughed ; and Pivi and his two wives lived happy ever afterwards .
-LSB- Moncelon .
Bulletin de la Societe d'Anthropologie .
Series iii .
vol .
ix. , pp. 613-365 . -RSB-
The Elf Maiden Once upon a time two young men living in a small village fell in love with the same girl .
During the winter , it was all night except for an hour or so about noon , when the darkness seemed a little less dark , and then they used to see which of them could tempt her out for a sleigh ride with the Northern Lights flashing above them , or which could persuade her to come to a dance in some neighbouring barn .
But when the spring began , and the light grew longer , the hearts of the villagers leapt at the sight of the sun , and a day was fixed for the boats to be brought out , and the great nets to be spread in the bays of some islands that lay a few miles to the north .
Everybody went on this expedition , and the two young men and the girl went with them .
They all sailed merrily across the sea chattering like a flock of magpies , or singing their favourite songs .
And when they reached the shore , what an unpacking there was !
For this was a noted fishing ground , and here they would live , in little wooden huts , till autumn and bad weather came round again .
The maiden and the two young men happened to share the same hut with some friends , and fished daily from the same boat .
And as time went on , one of the youths remarked that the girl took less notice of him than she did of his companion .
At first he tried to think that he was dreaming , and for a long while he kept his eyes shut very tight to what he did not want to see , but in spite of his efforts , the truth managed to wriggle through , and then the young man gave up trying to deceive himself , and set about finding some way to get the better of his rival .
The plan that he hit upon could not be carried out for some months ; but the longer the young man thought of it , the more pleased he was with it , so he made no sign of his feelings , and waited patiently till the moment came .
This was the very day that they were all going to leave the islands , and sail back to the mainland for the winter .
In the bustle and hurry of departure , the cunning fisherman contrived that their boat should be the last to put off , and when everything was ready , and the sails about to be set , he suddenly called out : ` Oh , dear , what shall I do !
I have left my best knife behind in the hut .
Run , like a good fellow , and get it for me , while I raise the anchor and loosen the tiller . '
Not thinking any harm , the youth jumped back on shore and made his way up the steep hank .
At the door of the hut he stopped and looked back , then started and gazed in horror .
The head of the boat stood out to sea , and he was left alone on the island .
Yes , there was no doubt of it -- he was quite alone ; and he had nothing to help him except the knife which his comrade had purposely dropped on the ledge of the window .
For some minutes he was too stunned by the treachery of his friend to think about anything at all , but after a while he shook himself awake , and determined that he would manage to keep alive somehow , if it were only to revenge himself .
So he put the knife in his pocket and went off to a part of the island which was not so bare as the rest , and had a small grove of trees .
From one of these he cut himself a bow , which he strung with a piece of cord that had been left lying about the huts .
When this was ready the young man ran down to the shore and shot one or two sea-birds , which he plucked and cooked for supper .
In this way the months slipped by , and Christmas came round again .
The evening before , the youth went down to the rocks and into the copse , collecting all the drift wood the sea had washed up or the gale had blown down , and he piled it up in a great stack outside the door , so that he might not have to fetch any all the next day .
As soon as his task was done , he paused and looked out towards the mainland , thinking of Christmas Eve last year , and the merry dance they had had .
The night was still and cold , and by the help of the Northern Lights he could almost sea across to the opposite coast , when , suddenly , he noticed a boat , which seemed steering straight for the island .
At first he could hardly stand for joy , the chance of speaking to another man was so delightful ; but as the boat drew near there was something , he could not tell what , that was different from the boats which he had been used to all his life , and when it touched the shore he saw that the people that filled it were beings of another world than ours .
Then he hastily stepped behind the wood stack , and waited for what might happen next .
The strange folk one by one jumped on to the rocks , each bearing a load of something that they wanted .
Among the women he remarked two young girls , more beautiful and better dressed than any of the rest , carrying between them two great baskets full of provisions .
The young man peeped out cautiously to see what all this crowd could be doing inside the tiny hut , but in a moment he drew back again , as the girls returned , and looked about as if they wanted to find out what sort of a place the island was .
Their sharp eyes soon discovered the form of a man crouching behind the bundles of sticks , and at first they felt a little frightened , and started as if they would run away .
But the youth remained so still , that they took courage and laughed gaily to each other .
` What a strange creature , let us try what he is made of , ' said one , and she stooped down and gave him a pinch .
Now the young man had a pin sticking in the sleeve of his jacket , and the moment the girl 's hand touched him she pricked it so sharply that the blood came .
The girl screamed so loudly that the people all ran out of their huts to see what was the matter .
But directly they caught sight of the man they turned and fled in the other direction , and picking up the goods they had brought with them scampered as fast as they could down to the shore .
In an instant , boat , people , and goods had vanished completely .
In their hurry they had , however , forgotten two things : a bundle of keys which lay on the table , and the girl whom the pin had pricked , and who now stood pale and helpless beside the wood stack .
` You will have to make me your wife , ' she said at last , ` for you have drawn my blood , and I belong to you . '
` Why not ?
I am quite willing , ' answered he .
` But how do you suppose we can manage to live till summer comes round again ? '
` Do not be anxious about that , ' said the girl ; ` if you will only marry me all will be well .
I am very rich , and all my family are rich also . '
Then the young man gave her his promise to make her his wife , and the girl fulfilled her part of the bargain , and food was plentiful on the island all through the long winter months , though he never knew how it got there .
And by-and-by it was spring once more , and time for the fisher-folk to sail from the mainland .
` Where are we to go now ? '
asked the girl , one day , when the sun seemed brighter and the wind softer than usual . '
I do not care where I go , ' answered the young man ; ` what do you think ? '
The girl replied that she would like to go somewhere right at the other end of the island , and build a house , far away from the huts of the fishing-folk .
And he consented , and that very day they set off in search of a sheltered spot on the banks of a stream , so that it would be easy to get water .
In a tiny bay , on the opposite side of the island they found the very thing , which seemed to have been made on purpose for them ; and as they were tired with their long walk , they laid themselves down on a bank of moss among some birches and prepared to have a good night 's rest , so as to be fresh for work next day .
But before she went to sleep the girl turned to her husband , and said : ` If in your dreams you fancy that you hear strange noises , be sure you do not stir , or get up to see what it is . '
` Oh , it is not likely we shall hear any noises in such a quiet place , ' answered he , and fell sound asleep .
Suddenly he was awakened by a great clatter about his ears , as if all the workmen in the world were sawing and hammering and building close to him .
He was just going to spring up and go to see what it meant , when he luckily remembered his wife 's words and lay still .
But the time till morning seemed very long , and with the first ray of sun they both rose , and pushed aside the branches of the birch trees .
There , in the very place they had chosen , stood a beautiful house -- doors and windows , and everything all complete !
` Now you must fix on a spot for your cow-stalls , ' said the girl , when they had breakfasted off wild cherries ; ` and take care it is the proper size , neither too large nor too small . '
And the husband did as he was bid , though he wondered what use a cow-house could be , as they had no cows to put in it .
But as he was a little afraid of his wife , who knew so much more than he , he asked no questions .
This night also he was awakened by the same sounds as before , and in the morning they found , near the stream , the most beautiful cow-house that ever was seen , with stalls and milk-pails and stools all complete , indeed , everything that a cow-house could possibly want , except the cows .
Then the girl bade him measure out the ground for a storehouse , and this , she said , might be as large as he pleased ; and when the storehouse was ready she proposed that they should set off to pay her parents a visit .
The old people welcomed them heartily , and summoned their neighbours , for many miles round , to a great feast in their honour .
In fact , for several weeks there was no work done on the farm at all ; and at length the young man and his wife grew tired of so much play , and declared that they must return to their own home .
But , before they started on the journey , the wife whispered to her husband : ` Take care to jump over the threshold as quick as you can , or it will be the worse for you . '
The young man listened to her words , and sprang over the threshold like an arrow from a bow ; and it was well he did , for , no sooner was he on the other side , than his father-in-law threw a great hammer at him , which would have broken both his legs , if it had only touched them .
When they had gone some distance on the road home , the girl turned to her husband and said : 'Till you step inside the house , be sure you do not look back , whatever you may hear or see . '
And the husband promised , and for a while all was still ; and he thought no more about the matter till he noticed at last that the nearer he drew to the house the louder grew the noise of the trampling of feet behind him .
As he laid his hand upon the door he thought he was safe , and turned to look .
There , sure enough , was a vast herd of cattle , which had been sent after him by his father-in-law when he found that his daughter had been cleverer than he .
Half of the herd were already through the fence and cropping the grass on the banks of the stream , but half still remained outside and faded into nothing , even as he watched them .
However , enough cattle were left to make the young man rich , and he and his wife lived happily together , except that every now and then the girl vanished from his sight , and never told him where she had been .
For a long time he kept silence about it ; but one day , when he had been complaining of her absence , she said to him : ` Dear husband , I am bound to go , even against my will , and there is only one way to stop me .
Drive a nail into the threshold , and then I can never pass in or out . '
And so he did .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
How Some Wild Animals Became Tame Ones Once upon a time there lived a miller who was so rich that , when he was going to be married , he asked to the feast not only his own friends but also the wild animals who dwelt in the hills and woods round about .
The chief of the bears , the wolves , the foxes , the horses , the cows , the goats , the sheep , and the reindeer , all received invitations ; and as they were not accustomed to weddings they were greatly pleased and flattered , and sent back messages in the politest language that they would certainly be there .
The first to start on the morning of the wedding-day was the bear , who always liked to be punctual ; and , besides , he had a long way to go , and his hair , being so thick and rough , needed a good brushing before it was fit to be seen at a party .
However , he took care to awaken very early , and set off down the road with a light heart .
Before he had walked very far he met a boy who came whistling along , hitting at the tops of the flowers with a stick .
` Where are you going ? '
said he , looking at the bear in surprise , for he was an old acquaintance , and not generally so smart .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answered the bear carelessly .
` Of course , I would much rather stay at home , but the miller was so anxious I should be there that I really could not refuse . '
` Do n't go , do n't go ! '
cried the boy .
` If you do you will never come back !
You have got the most beautiful skin in the world -- just the kind that everyone is wanting , and they will be sure to kill you and strip you of it . ' '
I had not thought of that , ' said the bear , whose face turned white , only nobody could see it .
` If you are certain that they would be so wicked -- but perhaps you are jealous because nobody has invited you ? '
` Oh , nonsense ! '
replied the boy angrily , ` do as you see .
It is your skin , and not mine ; I do n't care what becomes of it ! '
And he walked quickly on with his head in the air .
The bear waited until he was out of sight , and then followed him slowly , for he felt in his heart that the boy 's advice was good , though he was too proud to say so .
The boy soon grew tired of walking along the road , and turned off into the woods , where there were bushes he could jump and streams he could wade ; but he had not gone far before he met the wolf .
` Where are you going ? '
asked he , for it was not the first time he had seen him .
` Oh , just to the miller 's marriage , ' answered the wolf , as the bear had done before him .
` It is rather tiresome , of course -- weddings are always so stupid ; but still one must be good-natured ! '
` Do n't go ! '
said the boy again .
` Your skin is so thick and warm , and winter is not far off now .
They will kill you , and strip it from you . '
The wolf 's jaw dropped in astonishment and terror .
` Do you really think that would happen ? '
he gasped .
` Yes , to be sure , I do , ' answered the boy .
` But it is your affair , not mine .
So good-morning , ' and on he went .
The wolf stood still for a few minutes , for he was trembling all over , and then crept quietly back to his cave .
Next the boy met the fox , whose lovely coat of silvery grey was shining in the sun .
` You look very fine ! '
said the boy , stopping to admire him , ` are you going to the miller 's wedding too ? '
` Yes , ' answered the fox ; ` it is a long journey to take for such a thing as that , but you know what the miller 's friends are like -- so dull and heavy !
It is only kind to go and amuse them a little . '
` You poor fellow , ' said the boy pityingly .
` Take my advice and stay at home .
If you once enter the miller 's gate his dogs will tear you in pieces . '
` Ah , well , such things have occurred , I know , ' replied the fox gravely .
And without saying any more he trotted off the way he had come .
His tail had scarcely disappeared , when a great noise of crashing branches was heard , and up bounded the horse , his black skin glistening like satin .
` Good-morning , ' he called to the boy as he galloped past , ' I ca n't wait to talk to you now .
I have promised the miller to be present at his wedding-feast , and they wo n't sit down till I come . '
` Stop !
stop ! '
cried the boy after him , and there was something in his voice that made the horse pull up .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he .
` You do n't know what you are doing , ' said the boy .
` If once you go there you will never gallop through these woods any more .
You are stronger than many men , but they will catch you and put ropes round you , and you will have to work and to serve them all the days of your life . '
The horse threw back his head at these words , and laughed scornfully .
` Yes , I am stronger than many men , ' answered he , ` and all the ropes in the world would not hold me .
Let them bind me as fast as they will , I can always break loose , and return to the forest and freedom . '
And with this proud speech he gave a whisk of his long tail , and galloped away faster than before .
But when he reached the miller 's house everything happened as the boy had said .
While he was looking at the guests and thinking how much handsomer and stronger he was than any of them , a rope was suddenly flung over his head , and he was thrown down and a bit thrust between his teeth .
Then , in spite of his struggles , he was dragged to a stable , and shut up for several days without any food , till his spirit was broken and his coat had lost its gloss .
After that he was harnessed to a plough , and had plenty of time to remember all he had lost through not listening to the counsel of the boy .
When the horse had turned a deaf ear to his words the boy wandered idly along , sometimes gathering wild strawberries from a bank , and sometimes plucking wild cherries from a tree , till he reached a clearing in the middle of the forest .
Crossing this open space was a beautiful milk-white cow with a wreath of flowers round her neck .
` Good-morning , ' she said pleasantly , as she came up to the place where the boy was standing .
` Good-morning , ' he returned .
` Where are you going in such a hurry ? '
` To the miller 's wedding ; I am rather late already , for the wreath took such a long time to make , so I ca n't stop . '
` Do n't go , ' said the boy earnestly ; ' when once they have tasted your milk they will never let you leave them , and you will have to serve them all the days of your life . '
` Oh , nonsense ; what do you know about it ? '
answered the cow , who always thought she was wiser than other people .
` Why , I can run twice as fast as any of them !
I should like to see anybody try to keep me against my will . '
And , without even a polite bow , she went on her way , feeling very much offended .
But everything turned out just as the boy had said .
The company had all heard of the fame of the cow 's milk , and persuaded her to give them some , and then her doom was sealed .
A crowd gathered round her , and held her horns so that she could not use them , and , like the horse , she was shut in the stable , and only let out in the mornings , when a long rope was tied round her head , and she was fastened to a stake in a grassy meadow .
And so it happened to the goat and to the sheep .
Last of all came the reindeer , looking as he always did , as if some serious business was on hand .
` Where are you going ? '
asked the boy , who by this time was tired of wild cherries , and was thinking of his dinner . '
I am invited to the wedding , ' answered the reindeer , ` and the miller has begged me on no account to fail him . ' '
O fool ! '
cried the boy , ` have you no sense at all ?
Do n't you know that when you get there they will hold you fast , for neither beast nor bird is as strong or as swift as you ? '
` That is exactly why I am quite safe , ' replied the reindeer . '
I am so strong that no one can bind me , and so swift that not even an arrow can catch me .
So , goodbye for the present , you will soon see me back . '
But none of the animals that went to the miller 's wedding ever came back .
And because they were self-willed and conceited , and would not listen to good advice , they and their children have been the servants of men to this very day .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Fortune and the Wood-Cutter Several hundreds of years ago there lived in a forest a wood-cutter and his wife and children .
He was very poor , having only his axe to depend upon , and two mules to carry the wood he cut to the neighbouring town ; but he worked hard , and was always out of bed by five o'clock , summer and winter .
This went on for twenty years , and though his sons were now grown up , and went with their father to the forest , everything seemed to go against them , and they remained as poor as ever .
In the end the wood-cutter lost heart , and said to himself : ` What is the good of working like this if I never am a penny the richer at the end ?
I shall go to the forest no more !
And perhaps , if I take to my bed , and do not run after Fortune , one day she may come to me . '
So the next morning he did not get up , and when six o'clock struck , his wife , who had been cleaning the house , went to see what was the matter .
` Are you ill ? '
she asked wonderingly , surprised at not finding him dressed .
` The cock has crowed ever so often .
It is high time for you to get up . '
` Why should I get up ? '
asked the man , without moving .
` Why ?
to go to the forest , of course . '
` Yes ; and when I have toiled all day I hardly earn enough to give us one meal . '
` But what can we do , my poor husband ? '
said she .
` It is just a trick of Fortune 's , who would never smile upon us . '
` Well , I have had my fill of Fortune 's tricks , ' cried he .
` If she wants me she can find me here .
But I have done with the wood for ever . '
` My dear husband , grief has driven you mad !
Do you think Fortune will come to anybody who does not go after her ?
Dress yourself , and saddle the mules , and begin your work .
Do you know that there is not a morsel of bread in the house ? ' '
I do n't care if there is n't , and I am not going to the forest .
It is no use your talking ; nothing will make me change my mind . '
The distracted wife begged and implored in vain ; her husband persisted in staying in bed , and at last , in despair , she left him and went back to her work .
An hour or two later a man from the nearest village knocked at her door , and when she opened it , he said to her : ` Good-morning , mother .
I have got a job to do , and I want to know if your husband will lend me your mules , as I see he is not using them , and can lend me a hand himself ? '
` He is upstairs ; you had better ask him , ' answered the woman .
And the man went up , and repeated his request . '
I am sorry , neighbour , but I have sworn not to leave my bed , and nothing will make me break my vow . '
` Well , then , will you lend me your two mules ?
I will pay you something for them . '
` Certainly , neighbour .
Take them and welcome . '
So the man left the house , and leading the mules from the stable , placed two sacks on their back , and drove them to a field where he had found a hidden treasure .
He filled the sacks with the money , though he knew perfectly well that it belonged to the sultan , and was driving them quietly home again , when he saw two soldiers coming along the road .
Now the man was aware that if he was caught he would be condemned to death , so he fled back into the forest .
The mules , left to themselves , took the path that led to their master 's stable .
The wood-cutter 's wife was looking out of the window when the mules drew up before the door , so heavily laden that they almost sank under their burdens .
She lost no time in calling her husband , who was still lying in bed .
` Quick !
quick !
get up as fast as you can .
Our two mules have returned with sacks on their backs , so heavily laden with something or other that the poor beasts can hardly stand up . '
` Wife , I have told you a dozen times already that I am not going to get up .
Why ca n't you leave me in peace ? '
As she found she could get no help from her husband the woman took a large knife and cut the cords which bound the sacks on to the animals ' backs .
They fell at once to the ground , and out poured a rain of gold pieces , till the little court-yard shone like the sun . '
A treasure ! '
gasped the woman , as soon as she could speak from surprise . '
A treasure ! '
And she ran off to tell her husband .
` Get up !
get up ! '
she cried .
` You were quite right not to go to the forest , and to await Fortune in your bed ; she has come at last !
Our mules have returned home laden with all the gold in the world , and it is now lying in the court .
No one in the whole country can be as rich as we are ! '
In an instant the wood-cutter was on his feet , and running to the court , where he paused dazzled by the glitter of the coins which lay around him .
` You see , my dear wife , that I was right , ' he said at last .
` Fortune is so capricious , you can never count on her .
Run after her , and she is sure to fly from you ; stay still , and she is sure to come . '
-LSB- Traditions Populaires de l'Asie Mineure . -RSB-
The Enchanted Head Once upon a time an old woman lived in a small cottage near the sea with her two daughters .
They were very poor , and the girls seldom left the house , as they worked all day long making veils for the ladies to wear over their faces , and every morning , when the veils were finished , the other took them over the bridge and sold them in the city .
Then she bought the food that they needed for the day , and returned home to do her share of veil-making .
One morning the old woman rose even earlier than usual , and set off for the city with her wares .
She was just crossing the bridge when , suddenly , she knocked up against a human head , which she had never seen there before .
The woman started back in horror ; but what was her surprise when the head spoke , exactly as if it had a body joined on to it .
` Take me with you , good mother ! '
it said imploringly ; ` take me with you back to your house . '
At the sound of these words the poor woman nearly went mad with terror .
Have that horrible thing always at home ?
Never !
never !
And she turned and ran back as fast as she could , not knowing that the head was jumping , dancing , and rolling after her .
But when she reached her own door it bounded in before her , and stopped in front of the fire , begging and praying to be allowed to stay .
All that day there was no food in the house , for the veils had not been sold , and they had no money to buy anything with .
So they all sat silent at their work , inwardly cursing the head which was the cause of their misfortunes .
When evening came , and there was no sign of supper , the head spoke , for the first time that day : ` Good mother , does no one ever eat here ?
During all the hours I have spent in your house not a creature has touched anything . '
` No , ' answered the old woman , ` we are not eating anything . '
` And why not , good mother ? '
` Because we have no money to buy any food . '
` Is it your custom never to eat ? '
` No , for every morning I go into the city to sell my veils , and with the few shillings I get for them I buy all we want .
To-day I did not cross the bridge , so of course I had nothing for food . '
` Then I am the cause of your having gone hungry all day ? '
asked the head .
` Yes , you are , ' answered the old woman .
` Well , then , I will give you money and plenty of it , if you will only do as I tell you .
In an hour , as the clock strikes twelve , you must be on the bridge at the place where you met me .
When you get there call out `` Ahmed , '' three times , as loud as you can .
Then a negro will appear , and you must say to him : `` The head , your master , desires you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . '' '
` Very well , my lord , ' said the old woman , ' I will set off at once for the bridge . '
And wrapping her veil round her she went out .
Midnight was striking as she reached the spot where she had met the head so many hours before .
` Ahmed !
Ahmed !
Ahmed ! '
cried she , and immediately a huge negro , as tall as a giant , stood on the bridge before her .
` What do you want ? '
asked he .
` The head , your master , desires you to open the trunk , and to give me the green purse which you will find in it . ' '
I will be back in a moment , good mother , ' said he .
And three minutes later he placed a purse full of sequins in the old woman 's hand .
No one can imagine the joy of the whole family at the sight of all this wealth .
The tiny , tumble-down cottage was rebuilt , the girls had new dresses , and their mother ceased selling veils .
It was such a new thing to them to have money to spend , that they were not as careful as they might have been , and by-and-by there was not a single coin left in the purse .
When this happened their hearts sank within them , and their faces fell .
` Have you spent your fortune ? '
asked the head from its corner , when it saw how sad they looked .
` Well , then , go at midnight , good mother , to the bridge , and call out `` Mahomet ! ''
three times , as loud as you can .
A negro will appear in answer , and you must tell him to open the trunk , and to give you the red purse which he will find there . '
The old woman did not need twice telling , but set off at once for the bridge .
` Mahomet !
Mahomet !
Mahomet ! '
cried she , with all her might ; and in an instant a negro , still larger than the last , stood before her .
` What do you want ? '
asked he .
` The head , your master , bids you open the trunk , and to give me the red purse which you will find in it . '
` Very well , good mother , I will do so , ' answered the negro , and , the moment after he had vanished , he reappeared with the purse in his hand .
This time the money seemed so endless that the old woman built herself a new house , and filled it with the most beautiful things that were to be found in the shops .
Her daughters were always wrapped in veils that looked as if they were woven out of sunbeams , and their dresses shone with precious stones .
The neighbours wondered where all this sudden wealth had sprung from , but nobody knew about the head .
` Good mother , ' said the head , one day , ` this morning you are to go to the city and ask the sultan to give me his daughter for my bride . '
` Do what ? '
asked the old woman in amazement .
` How can I tell the sultan that a head without a body wishes to become his son-in-law ?
They will think that I am mad , and I shall be hooted from the palace and stoned by the children . '
` Do as I bid you , ' replied the head ; ` it is my will . '
The old woman was afraid to say anything more , and , putting on her richest clothes , started for the palace .
The sultan granted her an audience at once , and , in a trembling voice , she made her request .
` Are you mad , old woman ? '
said the sultan , staring at her .
` The wooer is powerful , O Sultan , and nothing is impossible to him . '
` Is that true ? '
` It is , O Sultan ; I swear it , ' answered she .
` Then let him show his power by doing three things , and I will give him my daughter . '
` Command , O gracious prince , ' said she .
` Do you see that hill in front of the palace ? '
asked the sultan . '
I see it , ' answered she .
` Well , in forty days the man who has sent you must make that hill vanish , and plant a beautiful garden in its place .
That is the first thing .
Now go , and tell him what I say . '
So the old woman returned and told the head the sultan 's first condition .
` It is well , ' he replied ; and said no more about it .
For thirty-nine days the head remained in its favourite corner .
The old woman thought that the task set before was beyond his powers , and that no more would be heard about the sultan 's daughter .
But on the thirty-ninth evening after her visit to the palace , the head suddenly spoke .
` Good mother , ' he said , ` you must go to-night to the bridge , and when you are there cry `` Ali !
Ali !
Ali ! ''
as loud as you can .
A negro will appear before you , and you will tell him that he is to level the hill , and to make , in its place , the most beautiful garden that ever was seen . ' '
I will go at once , ' answered she .
It did not take her long to reach the bridge which led to the city , and she took up her position on the spot where she had first seen the head , and called loudly ` Ali !
Ali !
Ali . '
In an instant a negro appeared before her , of such a huge size that the old woman was half frightened ; but his voice was mild and gentle as he said : ` What is it that you want ? '
` Your master bids you level the hill that stands in front of the sultan 's palace and in its place to make the most beautiful garden in the world . '
` Tell my master he shall be obeyed , ' replied Ali ; ` it shall be done this moment . '
And the old woman went home and gave Ali 's message to the head .
Meanwhile the sultan was in his palace waiting till the fortieth day should dawn , and wondering that not one spadeful of earth should have been dug out of the hill .
` If that old woman has been playing me a trick , ' thought he , ' I will hang her !
And I will put up a gallows to-morrow on the hill itself . '
But when to-morrow came there was no hill , and when the sultan opened his eyes he could not imagine why the room was so much lighter than usual , and what was the reason of the sweet smell of flowers that filled the air .
` Can there be a fire ? '
he said to himself ; ` the sun never came in at this window before .
I must get up and see . '
So he rose and looked out , and underneath him flowers from every part of the world were blooming , and creepers of every colour hung in chains from tree to tree .
Then he remembered .
` Certainly that old woman 's son is a clever magician ! '
cried he ; ' I never met anyone as clever as that .
What shall I give him to do next ?
Let me think .
Ah !
I know . '
And he sent for the old woman , who by the orders of the head , was waiting below .
` Your son has carried out my wishes very nicely , ' he said .
` The garden is larger and better than that of any other king .
But when I walk across it I shall need some place to rest on the other side .
In forty days he must build me a palace , in which every room shall be filled with different furniture from a different country , and each more magnificent than any room that ever was seen . '
And having said this he turned round and went away .
` Oh !
he will never be able to do that , ' thought she ; ` it is much more difficult than the hill . '
And she walked home slowly , with her head bent .
` Well , what am I to do next ? '
asked the head cheerfully .
And the old woman told her story .
` Dear me !
is that all ?
why it is child 's play , ' answered the head ; and troubled no more about the palace for thirty-nine days .
Then he told the old woman to go to the bridge and call for Hassan .
` What do you want , old woman ? '
asked Hassan , when he appeared , for he was not as polite as the others had been .
` Your master commands you to build the most magnificent palace that ever was seen , ' replied she ; ` and you are to place it on the borders of the new garden . '
` He shall be obeyed , ' answered Hassan .
And when the sultan woke he saw , in the distance , a palace built of soft blue marble , resting on slender pillars of pure gold .
` That old woman 's son is certainly all-powerful , ' cried he ; ` what shall I bid him do now ? '
And after thinking some time he sent for the old woman , who was expecting the summons .
` The garden is wonderful , and the palace the finest in the world , ' said he , ` so fine , that my servants would cut but a sorry figure in it .
Let your son fill it with forty slaves whose beauty shall be unequalled , all exactly like each other , and of the same height . '
This time the king thought he had invented something totally impossible , and was quite pleased with himself for his cleverness .
Thirty-nine days passed , and at midnight on the night of the last the old woman was standing on the bridge .
` Bekir !
Bekir !
Bekir ! '
cried she .
And a negro appeared , and inquired what she wanted .
` The head , your master , bids you find forty slaves of unequalled beauty , and of the same height , and place them in the sultan 's palace on the other side of the garden . '
And when , on the morning of the fortieth day , the sultan went to the blue palace , and was received by the forty slaves , he nearly lost his wits from surprise . '
I will assuredly give my daughter to the old woman 's son , ' thought he .
` If I were to search all the world through I could never find a more powerful son-in-law . '
And when the old woman entered his presence he informed her that he was ready to fulfil his promise , and she was to bid her son appear at the palace without delay .
This command did not at all please the old woman , though , of course , she made no objections to the sultan .
` All has gone well so far , ' she grumbled , when she told her story to the head , ' but what do you suppose the sultan will say , when he sees his daughter 's husband ? '
` Never mind what he says !
Put me on a silver dish and carry me to the palace . '
So it was done , though the old woman 's heart beat as she laid down the dish with the head upon it .
At the sight before him the king flew into a violent rage . '
I will never marry my daughter to such a monster , ' he cried .
But the princess placed her head gently on his arm .
` You have given your word , my father , and you can not break it , ' said she .
` But , my child , it is impossible for you to marry such a being , ' exclaimed the sultan .
` Yes , I will marry him .
He had a beautiful head , and I love him already . '
So the marriage was celebrated , and great feasts were held in the palace , though the people wept tears to think of the sad fate of their beloved princess .
But when the merry-making was done , and the young couple were alone , the head suddenly disappeared , or , rather , a body was added to it , and one of the handsomest young men that ever was seen stood before the princess . '
A wicked fairy enchanted me at my birth , ' he said , ` and for the rest of the world I must always be a head only .
But for you , and you only , I am a man like other men . '
` And that is all I care about , ' said the princess .
-LSB- Traditions populaires de toutes les nations -LRB- Asie Mineure -RRB- -RSB- .
The Sister of the Sun A long time ago there lived a young prince whose favourite playfellow was the son of the gardener who lived in the grounds of the palace .
The king would have preferred his choosing a friend from the pages who were brought up at court ; but the prince would have nothing to say to them , and as he was a spoilt child , and allowed his way in all things , and the gardener 's boy was quiet and well-behaved , he was suffered to be in the palace , morning , noon , and night .
The game the children loved the best was a match at archery , for the king had given them two bows exactly alike , and they would spend whole days in trying to see which could shoot the highest .
This is always very dangerous , and it was a great wonder they did not put their eyes out ; but somehow or other they managed to escape .
One morning , when the prince had done his lessons , he ran out to call his friend , and they both hurried off to the lawn which was their usual playground .
They took their bows out of the little hut where their toys were kept , and began to see which could shoot the highest .
At last they happened to let fly their arrows both together , and when they fell to earth again the tail feather of a golden hen was found sticking in one .
Now the question began to arise whose was the lucky arrow , for they were both alike , and look as closely as you would you could see no difference between them .
The prince declared that the arrow was his , and the gardener 's boy was quite sure it was HIS -- and on this occasion he was perfectly right ; but , as they could not decide the matter , they went straight to the king .
When the king had heard the story , he decided that the feather belonged to his son ; but the other boy would not listen to this and claimed the feather for himself .
At length the king 's patience gave way , and he said angrily : ` Very well ; if you are so sure that the feather is yours , yours it shall be ; only you will have to seek till you find a golden hen with a feather missing from her tail .
And if you fail to find her your head will be the forfeit . '
The boy had need of all his courage to listen silently to the king 's words .
He had no idea where the golden hen might be , or even , if he discovered that , how he was to get to her .
But there was nothing for it but to do the king 's bidding , and he felt that the sooner he left the palace the better .
So he went home and put some food into a bag , and then set forth , hoping that some accident might show him which path to take .
After walking for several hours he met a fox , who seemed inclined to be friendly , and the boy was so glad to have anyone to talk to that he sat down and entered into conversation .
` Where are you going ? '
asked the fox . '
I have got to find a golden hen who has lost a feather out of her tail , ' answered the boy ; ` but I do n't know where she lives or how I shall catch her ! '
` Oh , I can show you the way ! '
said the fox , who was really very good-natured .
` Far towards the east , in that direction , lives a beautiful maiden who is called `` The Sister of the Sun . ''
She has three golden hens in her house .
Perhaps the feather belongs to one of them . '
The boy was delighted at this news , and they walked on all day together , the fox in front , and the boy behind .
When evening came they lay down to sleep , and put the knapsack under their heads for a pillow .
Suddenly , about midnight , the fox gave a low whine , and drew nearer to his bedfellow .
` Cousin , ' he whispered very low , ` there is someone coming who will take the knapsack away from me .
Look over there ! '
And the boy , peeping through the bushes , saw a man .
` Oh , I do n't think he will rob us ! '
said the boy ; and when the man drew near , he told them his story , which so much interested the stranger that he asked leave to travel with them , as he might be of some use .
So when the sun rose they set out again , the fox in front as before , the man and boy following .
After some hours they reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun , who kept the golden hens among her treasures .
They halted before the gate and took counsel as to which of them should go in and see the lady herself . '
I think it would be best for me to enter and steal the hens , ' said the fox ; but this did not please the boy at all .
` No , it is my business , so it is right that I should go , ' answered he .
` You will find it a very difficult matter to get hold of the hens , ' replied the fox .
` Oh , nothing is likely to happen to me , ' returned the boy .
` Well , go then , ' said the fox , ` but be careful not to make any mistake .
Steal only the hen which has the feather missing from her tail , and leave the others alone . '
The man listened , but did not interfere , and the boy entered the court of the palace .
He soon spied the three hens strutting proudly about , though they were really anxiously wondering if there were not some grains lying on the ground that they might be glad to eat .
And as the last one passed by him , he saw she had one feather missing from her tail .
At this sight the youth darted forward and seized the hen by the neck so that she could not struggle .
Then , tucking her comfortably under his arm , he made straight for the gate .
Unluckily , just as he was about to go through it he looked back and caught a glimpse of wonderful splendours from an open door of the palace .
` After all , there is no hurry , ' he said to himself ; ' I may as well see something now I AM here , ' and turned back , forgetting all about the hen , which escaped from under his arm , and ran to join her sisters .
He was so much fascinated by the sight of all the beautiful things which peeped through the door that he scarcely noticed that he had lost the prize he had won ; and he did not remember there was such a thing as a hen in the world when he beheld the Sister of the Sun sleeping on a bed before him .
For some time he stood staring ; then he came to himself with a start , and feeling that he had no business there , softly stole away , and was fortunate enough to recapture the hen , which he took with him to the gate .
On the threshold he stopped again .
` Why should I not look at the Sister of the Sun ? '
he thought to himself ; ` she is asleep , and will never know . '
And he turned back for the second time and entered the chamber , while the hen wriggled herself free as before .
When he had gazed his fill he went out into the courtyard and picked up his hen who was seeking for corn .
As he drew near the gate he paused .
` Why did I not give her a kiss ? '
he said to himself ; ' I shall never kiss any woman so beautiful . '
And he wrung his hands with regret , so that the hen fell to the ground and ran away .
` But I can do it still ! '
he cried with delight , and he rushed back to the chamber and kissed the sleeping maiden on the forehead .
But , alas !
when he came out again he found that the hen had grown so shy that she would not let him come near her .
And , worse than that , her sisters began to cluck so loud that the Sister of the Sun was awakened by the noise .
She jumped up in haste from her bed , and going to the door she said to the boy : ` You shall never , never , have my hen till you bring me back my sister who was carried off by a giant to his castle , which is a long way off . '
Slowly and sadly the youth left the palace and told his story to his friends , who were waiting outside the gate , how he had actually held the hen three times in his arms and had lost her . '
I knew that we should not get off so easily , ' said the fox , shaking his head ; ` but there is no more time to waste .
Let us set off at once in search of the sister .
Luckily , I know the way . '
They walked on for many days , till at length the fox , who , as usual , was going first , stopped suddenly .
` The giant 's castle is not far now , ' he said , ` but when we reach it you two must remain outside while I go and fetch the princess .
Directly I bring her out you must both catch hold of her tight , and get away as fast as you can ; while I return to the castle and talk to the giants -- for there are many of them -- so that they may not notice the escape of the princess . '
A few minutes later they arrived at the castle , and the fox , who had often been there before , slipped in without difficulty .
There were several giants , both young and old , in the hall , and they were all dancing round the princess .
As soon as they saw the fox they cried out : ` Come and dance too , old fox ; it is a long time since we have seen you . '
So the fox stood up , and did his steps with the best of them ; but after a while he stopped and said : ' I know a charming new dance that I should like to show you ; but it can only be done by two people .
If the princess will honour me for a few minutes , you will soon see how it is done . '
` Ah , that is delightful ; we want something new , ' answered they , and placed the princess between the outstretched arms of the fox .
In one instant he had knocked over the great stand of lights that lighted the hall , and in the darkness had borne the princess to the gate .
His comrades seized hold of her , as they had been bidden , and the fox was back again in the hall before anyone had missed him .
He found the giants busy trying to kindle a fire and get some light ; but after a bit someone cried out : ` Where is the princess ? '
` Here , in my arms , ' replied the fox .
` Do n't be afraid ; she is quite safe . '
And he waited until he thought that his comrades had gained a good start , and put at least five or six mountains between themselves and the giants .
Then he sprang through the door , calling , as he went : ` The maiden is here ; take her if you can ! '
At these words the giants understood that their prize had escaped , and they ran after the fox as fast as their great legs could carry them , thinking that they should soon come up with the fox , who they supposed had the princess on his back .
The fox , on his side , was far too clever to choose the same path that his friends had taken , but would in and out of the forest , till at last even HE was tired out , and fell fast asleep under a tree .
Indeed , he was so exhausted with his day 's work that he never heard the approach of the giants , and their hands were already stretched out to seize his tail when his eyes opened , and with a tremendous bound he was once more beyond their reach .
All the rest of the night the fox ran and ran ; but when bright red spread over the east , he stopped and waited till the giants were close upon him .
Then he turned , and said quietly : ` Look , there is the Sister of the Sun ! '
The giants raised their eyes all at once , and were instantly turned into pillars of stone .
The fox then made each pillar a low bow , and set off to join his friends .
He knew a great many short cuts across the hills , so it was not long before he came up with them , and all four travelled night and day till they reached the castle of the Sister of the Sun .
What joy and feasting there was throughout the palace at the sight of the princess whom they had mourned as dead !
and they could not make enough of the boy who had gone through such dangers in order to rescue her .
The golden hen was given to him at once , and , more than that , the Sister of the Sun told him that , in a little time , when he was a few years older , she would herself pay a visit to his home and become his wife .
The boy could hardly believe his ears when he heard what was in store for him , for his was the most beautiful princess in all the world ; and however thick the darkness might be , it fled away at once from the light of a star on her forehead .
So the boy set forth on his journey home , with his friends for company ; his heart full of gladness when he thought of the promise of the princess .
But , one by one , his comrades dropped off at the places where they had first met him , and he was quite alone when he reached his native town and the gates of the palace .
With the golden hen under his arm he presented himself before the king , and told his adventures , and how he was going to have for a wife a princess so wonderful and unlike all other princesses , that the star on her forehead could turn night into day .
The king listened silently , and when the boy had done , he said quietly : ` If I find that your story is not true I will have you thrown into a cask of pitch . '
` It is true -- every word of it , ' answered the boy ; and went on to tell that the day and even the hour were fixed when his bride was to come and seek him .
But as the time drew near , and nothing was heard of the princess , the youth became anxious and uneasy , especially when it came to his ears that the great cask was being filled with pitch , and that sticks were laid underneath to make a fire to boil it with .
All day long the boy stood at the window , looking over the sea by which the princess must travel ; but there were no signs of her , not even the tiniest white sail .
And , as he stood , soldiers came and laid hands on him , and led him up to the cask , where a big fire was blazing , and the horrid black pitch boiling and bubbling over the sides .
He looked and shuddered , but there was no escape ; so he shut his eyes to avoid seeing .
The word was given for him to mount the steps which led to the top of the cask , when , suddenly , some men were seen running with all their might , crying as they went that a large ship with its sails spread was making straight for the city .
No one knew what the ship was , or whence it came ; but the king declared that he would not have the boy burned before its arrival , there would always be time enough for that .
At length the vessel was safe in port , and a whisper went through the watching crowd that on board was the Sister of the Sun , who had come to marry the young peasant as she had promised .
In a few moments more she had landed , and desired to be shown the way to the cottage which her bridegroom had so often described to her ; and whither he had been led back by the king 's order at the first sign of the ship .
` Do n't you know me ? '
asked the Sister of the Sun , bending over him where he lay , almost driven out of his senses with terror .
` No , no ; I do n't know you , ' answered the youth , without raising his eyes .
` Kiss me , ' said the Sister of the Sun ; and the youth obeyed her , but still without looking up .
` Do n't you know me NOW ? '
asked she .
` No , I do n't know you -- I do n't know you , ' he replied , with the manner of a man whom fear had driven mad .
At this the Sister of the Sun grew rather frightened , and beginning at the beginning , she told him the story of his meeting with her , and how she had come a long way in order to marry him .
And just as she had finished in walked the king , to see if what the boy had said was really true .
But hardly had he opened the door of the cottage when he was almost blinded by the light that filled it ; and he remembered what he had been told about the star on the forehead of the princess .
He staggered back as if he had been struck , then a curious feeling took hold of him , which he had never felt before , and falling on his knees before the Sister of the Sun , he implored her to give up all thought of the peasant boy , and to share his throne .
But she laughed , and said she had a finer throne of her own , if she wanted to sit on it , and that she was free to please herself , and would have no husband but the boy whom she would never have seen except for the king himself . '
I shall marry him to-morrow , ' ended she ; and ordered the preparations to be set on foot at once .
When the next day came , however , the bridegroom 's father informed the princess that , by the law of the land , the marriage must take place in the presence of the king ; but he hoped his majesty would not long delay his arrival .
An hour or two passed , and everyone was waiting and watching , when at last the sound of trumpets was heard and a grand procession was seen marching up the street .
A chair covered with velvet had been made ready for the king , and he took his seat upon it , and , looking round upon the assembled company , he said : ' I have no wish to forbid this marriage ; but , before I can allow it to be celebrated , the bridegroom must prove himself worthy of such a bride by fulfilling three tasks .
And the first is that in a single day he must cut down every tree in an entire forest .
The youth stood aghast as the king 's words .
He had never cut down a tree in his life , and had not the least idea how to begin .
And as for a whole forest -- !
But the princess saw what was passing in his mind , and whispered to him : ` Do n't be afraid .
In my ship you will find an axe , which you must carry off to the forest .
When you have cut down one tree with it just say : `` So let the forest fall , '' and in an instant all the trees will be on the ground .
But pick up three chips of the tree you felled , and put them in your pocket . '
And the young man did exactly as he was bid , and soon returned with the three chips safe in his coat .
The following morning the princess declared that she had been thinking about the matter , and that , as she was not a subject of the king , she saw no reason why she should be bound by his laws ; and she meant to be married that very day .
But the bridegroom 's father told her that it was all very well for her to talk like that , but it was quite different for his son , who would pay with his head for any disobedience to the king 's commands .
However , in consideration of what the youth had done the day before , he hoped his majesty 's heart might be softened , especially as he had sent a message that they might expect him at once .
With this the bridal pair had to be content , and be as patient as they could till the king 's arrival .
He did not keep them long , but they saw by his face that nothing good awaited them .
` The marriage can not take place , ' he said shortly , 'till the youth has joined to their roots all the trees he cut down yesterday . '
This sounded much more difficult than what he had done before , and he turned in despair to the Sister of the Sun .
` It is all right , ' she whispered encouragingly .
` Take this water and sprinkle it on one of the fallen trees , and say to it : `` So let all the trees of the forest stand upright , '' and in a moment they will be erect again . '
And the young man did what he was told , and left the forest looking exactly as it had done before .
Now , surely , thought the princess , there was no longer any need to put off the wedding ; and she gave orders that all should be ready for the following day .
But again the old man interfered , and declared that without the king 's permission no marriage could take place .
For the third time his majesty was sent for , and for the third time he proclaimed that he could not give his consent until the bridegroom should have slain a serpent which dwelt in a broad river that flowed at the back of the castle .
Everyone knew stories of this terrible serpent , though no one had actually seen it ; but from time to time a child strayed from home and never came back , and then mothers would forbid the other children to go near the river , which had juicy fruits and lovely flowers growing along its banks .
So no wonder the youth trembled and turned pale when he heard what lay before him .
` You will succeed in this also , ' whispered the Sister of the Sun , pressing his hand , ` for in my ship is a magic sword which will cut through everything .
Go down to the river and unfasten a boat which lies moored there , and throw the chips into the water .
When the serpent rears up its body you will cut off its three heads with one blow of your sword .
Then take the tip of each tongue and go with it to-morrow morning into the king 's kitchen .
If the king himself should enter , just say to him : `` Here are three gifts I offer you in return for the services you demanded of me ! ''
and throw the tips of the serpent 's tongues at him , and hasten to the ship as fast as your legs will carry you .
But be sure you take great care never to look behind you . '
The young man did exactly what the princess had told him .
The three chips which he flung into the river became a boat , and , as he steered across the stream , the serpent put up its head and hissed loudly .
The youth had his sword ready , and in another second the three heads were bobbing on the water .
Guiding his boat till he was beside them , he stooped down and snipped off the ends of the tongues , and then rowed back to the other bank .
Next morning he carried them into the royal kitchen , and when the king entered , as was his custom , to see what he was going to have for dinner , the bridegroom flung them in his face , saying : ` Here is a gift for you in return for the services you asked of me . '
And , opening the kitchen door , he fled to the ship .
Unluckily he missed the way , and in his excitement ran backwards and forwards , without knowing whither he was going .
At last , in despair , he looked round , and saw to his amazement that both the city and palace had vanished completely .
Then he turned his eyes in the other direction , and , far , far away , he caught sight of the ship with her sails spread , and a fair wind behind her .
This dreadful spectacle seemed to take away his senses , and all day long he wandered about , without knowing where he was going , till , in the evening , he noticed some smoke from a little hut of turf near by .
He went straight up to it and cried : ' O mother , let me come in for pity 's sake ! '
The old woman who lived in the hut beckoned to him to enter , and hardly was he inside when he cried again : ' O mother , can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
But the woman only shook her head .
` No , I know nothing of her , ' said she .
The young man turned to leave the hut , but the old woman stopped him , and , giving him a letter , begged him to carry it to her next eldest sister , saying : ` If you should get tired on the way , take out the letter and rustle the paper . '
This advice surprised the young man a good deal , as he did not see how it could help him ; but he did not answer , and went down the road without knowing where he was going .
At length he grew so tired he could walk no more ; then he remembered what the old woman had said .
After he had rustled the leaves only once all fatigue disappeared , and he strode over the grass till he came to another little turf hut .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cried he .
And the door opened in front of him .
` Your sister has sent you this letter , ' he said , and added quickly : ' O mother !
can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` No , I know nothing of her , ' answered she .
But as he turned hopelessly away , she stopped him .
` If you happen to pass my eldest sister 's house , will you give her this letter ? '
said she .
` And if you should get tired on the road , just take it out of your pocket and rustle the paper . '
So the young man put the letter in his pocket , and walked all day over the hills till he reached a little turf hut , exactly like the other two .
` Let me in , I pray you , dear mother , ' cried he .
And as he entered he added : ` Here is a letter from your sister and -- can you tell me anything of the Sister of the Sun ? '
` Yes , I can , ' answered the old woman .
` She lives in the castle on the Banka .
Her father lost a battle only a few days ago because you had stolen his sword from him , and the Sister of the Sun herself is almost dead of grief .
But , when you see her , stick a pin into the palm of her hand , and suck the drops of blood that flow .
Then she will grow calmer , and will know you again .
Only , beware ; for before you reach the castle on the Banka fearful things will happen . '
He thanked the old woman with tears of gladness for the good news she had given him , and continued his journey .
But he had not gone very far when , at a turn of the road , he met with two brothers , who were quarrelling over a piece of cloth .
` My good men , what are you fighting about ? '
said he .
` That cloth does not look worth much ! '
` Oh , it is ragged enough , ' answered they , ` but it was left us by our father , and if any man wraps it round him no one can see him ; and we each want it for our own . '
` Let me put it round me for a moment , ' said the youth , ` and then I will tell you whose it ought to be ! '
The brothers were pleased with this idea , and gave him the stuff ; but the moment he had thrown it over his shoulder he disappeared as completely as if he had never been there at all .
Meanwhile the young man walked briskly along , till he came up with two other men , who were disputing over a table-cloth .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he , stopping in front of them .
` If this cloth is spread on a table , ' answered they , ` the table is instantly covered with the most delicious food ; and we each want to have it . '
` Let me try the table-cloth , ' said the youth , ` and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The two men were quite pleased with this idea , and handed him the cloth .
He then hastily threw the first piece of stuff round his shoulders and vanished from sight , leaving the two men grieving over their own folly .
The young man had not walked far before he saw two more men standing by the road-side , both grasping the same stout staff , and sometimes one seemed on the point of getting it , and sometimes the other .
` What are you quarrelling about ?
You could cut a dozen sticks from the wood each just as good as that ! '
said the young man .
And as he spoke the fighters both stopped and looked at him .
` Ah !
you may think so , ' said one , ` but a blow from one end of this stick will kill a man , while a touch from the other end will bring him back to life .
You wo n't easily find another stick like that ! '
` No ; that is true , ' answered the young man .
` Let me just look at it , and I will tell you whose it ought to be . '
The men were pleased with the idea , and handed him the staff .
` It is very curious , certainly , ' said he ; ` but which end is it that restores people to life ?
After all , anyone can be killed by a blow from a stick if it is only hard enough ! '
But when he was shown the end he threw the stuff over his shoulders and vanished .
At last he saw another set of men , who were struggling for the possession of a pair of shoes .
` Why ca n't you leave that pair of old shoes alone ? '
said he .
` Why , you could not walk a yard in them ! '
` Yes , they are old enough , ' answered they ; ` but whoever puts them on and wishes himself at a particular place , gets there without going . '
` That sounds very clever , ' said the youth .
` Let me try them , and then I shall be able to tell you whose they ought to be . '
The idea pleased the men , and they handed him the shoes ; but the moment they were on his feet he cried : ' I wish to be in the castle on the Banka ! '
And before he knew it , he was there , and found the Sister of the Sun dying of grief .
He knelt down by her side , and pulling a pin he stuck it into the palm of her hand , so that a drop of blood gushed out .
This he sucked , as he had been told to do by the old woman , and immediately the princess came to herself , and flung her arms round his neck .
Then she told him all her story , and what had happened since the ship had sailed away without him .
` But the worst misfortune of all , ' she added , ` was a battle which my father lost because you had vanished with his magic sword ; and out of his whole army hardly one man was left . '
` Show me the battle-field , ' said he .
And she took him to a wild heath , where the dead were lying as they fell , waiting for burial .
One by one he touched them with the end of his staff , till at length they all stood before him .
Throughout the kingdom there was nothing but joy ; and THIS time the wedding was REALLY celebrated .
And the bridal pair lived happily in the castle on the Banka till they died .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Prince and the Three Fates Once upon a time a little boy was born to a king who ruled over a great country through which ran a wide river .
The king was nearly beside himself with joy , for he had always longed for a son to inherit his crown , and he sent messages to beg all the most powerful fairies to come and see this wonderful baby .
In an hour or two , so many were gathered round the cradle , that the child seemed in danger of being smothered ; but the king , who was watching the fairies eagerly , was disturbed to see them looking grave .
` Is there anything the matter ? '
he asked anxiously .
The fairies looked at him , and all shook their heads at once .
` He is a beautiful boy , and it is a great pity ; but what IS to happen WILL happen , ' said they .
` It is written in the books of fate that he must die , either by a crocodile , or a serpent , or by a dog .
If we could save him we would ; but that is beyond our power . '
And so saying they vanished .
For a time the king stood where he was , horror-stricken at what he had heard ; but , being of a hopeful nature , he began at once to invent plans to save the prince from the dreadful doom that awaited him .
He instantly sent for his master builder , and bade him construct a strong castle on the top of a mountain , which should be fitted with the most precious things from the king 's own palace , and every kind of toy a child could wish to play with .
And , besides , he gave the strictest orders that a guard should walk round the castle night and day .
For four or five years the baby lived in the castle alone with his nurses , taking his airings on the broad terraces , which were surrounded by walls , with a moat beneath them , and only a drawbridge to connect them with the outer world .
One day , when the prince was old enough to run quite fast by himself , he looked from the terrace across the moat , and saw a little soft fluffy ball of a dog jumping and playing on the other side .
Now , of course , all dogs had been kept from him for fear that the fairies ' prophecy should come true , and he had never even beheld one before .
So he turned to the page who was walking behind him , and said : ` What is that funny little thing which is running so fast over there ? '
` That is a dog , prince , ' answered the page .
` Well , bring me one like it , and we will see which can run the faster . '
And he watched the dog till it had disappeared round the corner .
The page was much puzzled to know what to do .
He had strict orders to refuse the prince nothing ; yet he remembered the prophecy , and felt that this was a serious matter .
At last he thought he had better tell the king the whole story , and let him decide the question .
` Oh , get him a dog if he wants one , ' said the king , ` he will only cry his heart out if he does not have it . '
So a puppy was found , exactly like the other ; they might have been twins , and perhaps they were .
Years went by , and the boy and the dog played together till the boy grew tall and strong .
The time came at last when he sent a message to his father , saying : ` Why do you keep me shut up here , doing nothing ?
I know all about the prophecy that was made at my birth , but I would far rather be killed at once than live an idle , useless life here .
So give me arms , and let me go , I pray you ; me and my dog too . '
And again the king listened to his wishes , and he and his dog were carried in a ship to the other side of the river , which was so broad here it might almost have been the sea .
A black horse was waiting for him , tied to a tree , and he mounted and rode away wherever his fancy took him , the dog always at his heels .
Never was any prince so happy as he , and he rode and rode till at length he came to a king 's palace .
The king who lived in it did not care about looking after his country , and seeing that his people lived cheerful and contented lives .
He spent his whole time in making riddles , and inventing plans which he had much better have let alone .
At the period when the young prince reached the kingdom he had just completed a wonderful house for his only child , a daughter .
It had seventy windows , each seventy feet from the ground , and he had sent the royal herald round the borders of the neighbouring kingdoms to proclaim that whoever could climb up the walls to the window of the princess should win her for his wife .
The fame of the princess 's beauty had spread far and wide , and there was no lack of princes who wished to try their fortune .
Very funny the palace must have looked each morning , with the dabs of different colour on the white marble as the princes were climbing up the walls .
But though some managed to get further than others , nobody was anywhere near the top .
They had already been spending several days in this manner when the young prince arrived , and as he was pleasant to look upon , and civil to talk to , they welcomed him to the house , which had been given to them , and saw that his bath was properly perfumed after his long journey .
` Where do you come from ? '
they said at last .
` And whose son are you ? '
But the young prince had reasons for keeping his own secret , and he answered : ` My father was master of the horse to the king of my country , and after my mother died he married another wife .
At first all went well , but as soon as she had babies of her own she hated me , and I fled , lest she should do me harm . '
The hearts of the other young men were touched as soon as they heard this story , and they did everything they could think of to make him forget his past sorrows .
` What are you doing here ? '
said the youth , one day .
` We spend our whole time climbing up the walls of the palace , trying to reach the windows of the princess , ' answered the young men ; ` but , as yet , no one has reached within ten feet of them . '
` Oh , let me try too , ' cried the prince ; ` but to-morrow I will wait and see what you do before I begin .
So the next day he stood where he could watch the young men go up , and he noted the places on the wall that seemed most difficult , and made up his mind that when his turn came he would go up some other way .
Day after day he was to be seen watching the wooers , till , one morning , he felt that he knew the plan of the walls by heart , and took his place by the side of the others .
Thanks to what he had learned from the failure of the rest , he managed to grasp one little rough projection after another , till at last , to the envy of his friends , he stood on the sill of the princess 's window .
Looking up from below , they saw a white hand stretched forth to draw him in .
Then one of the young men ran straight to the king 's palace , and said : ` The wall has been climbed , and the prize is won ! '
` By whom ? '
cried the king , starting up from his throne ; ` which of the princes may I claim as my son-in-law ? '
` The youth who succeeded in climbing to the princess 's window is not a prince at all , ' answered the young man .
` He is the son of the master of the horse to the great king who dwells across the river , and he fled from his own country to escape from the hatred of his stepmother . '
At this news the king was very angry , for it had never entered his head that anyone BUT a prince would seek to woo his daughter .
` Let him go back to the land whence he came , ' he shouted in wrath ; ` does he expect me to give my daughter to an exile ? '
And he began to smash the drinking vessels in his fury ; indeed , he quite frightened the young man , who ran hastily home to his friends , and told the youth what the king had said .
Now the princess , who was leaning from her window , heard his words and bade the messenger go back to the king her father and tell him that she had sworn a vow never to eat or drink again if the youth was taken from her .
The king was more angry than ever when he received this message , and ordered his guards to go at once to the palace and put the successful wooer to death ; but the princess threw herself between him and his murderers .
` Lay a finger on him , and I shall be dead before sunset , ' said she ; and as they saw that she meant it , they left the palace , and carried the tale to her father .
By this time the king 's anger was dying away , and he began to consider what his people would think of him if he broke the promise he had publicly given .
So he ordered the princess to be brought before him , and the young man also , and when they entered the throne room he was so pleased with the noble air of the victor that his wrath quite melted away , and he ran to him and embraced him .
` Tell me who you are ? '
he asked , when he had recovered himself a little , ` for I will never believe that you have not royal blood in your veins . '
But the prince still had his reasons for being silent , and only told the same story .
However , the king had taken such a fancy to the youth that he said no more , and the marriage took place the following day , and great herds of cattle and a large estate were given to the young couple .
After a little while the prince said to his wife : ` My life is in the hands of three creatures -- a crocodile , a serpent , and a dog . '
` Ah , how rash you are ! '
cried the princess , throwing her arms round his neck .
` If you know that , how can you have that horrid beast about you ?
I will give orders to have him killed at once . '
But the prince would not listen to her .
` Kill my dear little dog , who had been my playfellow since he was a puppy ? '
exclaimed he .
` Oh , never would I allow that . '
And all that the princess could get from him was that he would always wear a sword , and have somebody with him when he left the palace .
When the prince and princess had been married a few months , the prince heard that his stepmother was dead , and his father was old and ill , and longing to have his eldest son by his side again .
The young man could not remain deaf to such a message , and he took a tender farewell of his wife , and set out on his journey home .
It was a long way , and he was forced to rest often on the road , and so it happened that , one night , when he was sleeping in a city on the banks of the great river , a huge crocodile came silently up and made its way along a passage to the prince 's room .
Fortunately one of his guards woke up as it was trying to steal past them , and shut the crocodile up in a large hall , where a giant watched over it , never leaving the spot except during the night , when the crocodile slept .
And this went on for more than a month .
Now , when the prince found that he was not likely to leave his father 's kingdom again , he sent for his wife , and bade the messenger tell her that he would await her coming in the town on the banks of the great river .
This was the reason why he delayed his journey so long , and narrowly escaped being eaten by the crocodile .
During the weeks that followed the prince amused himself as best he could , though he counted the minutes to the arrival of the princess , and when she did come , he at once prepared to start for the court .
That very night , however , while he was asleep , the princess noticed something strange in one of the corners of the room .
It was a dark patch , and seemed , as she looked , to grow longer and longer , and to be moving slowly towards the cushions on which the prince was lying .
She shrank in terror , but , slight as was the noise , the thing heard it , and raised its head to listen .
Then she saw it was the long flat head of a serpent , and the recollection of the prophecy rushed into her mind .
Without waking her husband , she glided out of bed , and taking up a heavy bowl of milk which stood on a table , laid it on the floor in the path of the serpent -- for she knew that no serpent in the world can resist milk .
She held her breath as the snake drew near , and watched it throw up its head again as if it was smelling something nice , while its forky tongue darted out greedily .
At length its eyes fell upon the milk , and in an instant it was lapping it so fast that it was a wonder the creature did not choke , for it never took its head from the bowl as long as a drop was left in it .
After that it dropped on the ground and slept heavily .
This was what the princess had been waiting for , and catching up her husband 's sword , she severed the snake 's head from its body .
The morning after this adventure the prince and princess set out for the king 's palace , but found when they reached it , that he was already dead .
They gave him a magnificent burial , and then the prince had to examine the new laws which had been made in his absence , and do a great deal of business besides , till he grew quite ill from fatigue , and was obliged to go away to one of his palaces on the banks of the river , in order to rest .
Here he soon got better , and began to hunt , and to shoot wild duck with his bow ; and wherever he went , his dog , now grown very old , went with him .
One morning the prince and his dog were out as usual , and in chasing their game they drew near the bank of the river .
The prince was running at full speed after his dog when he almost fell over something that looked like a log of wood , which was lying in his path .
To his surprise a voice spoke to him , and he saw that the thing which he had taken for a branch was really a crocodile .
` You can not escape from me , ' it was saying , when he had gathered his senses again . '
I am your fate , and wherever you go , and whatever you do , you will always find me before you .
There is only one means of shaking off my power .
If you can dig a pit in the dry sand which will remain full of water , my spell will be broken .
If not death will come to you speedily .
I give you this one chance .
Now go . '
The young man walked sadly away , and when he reached the palace he shut himself into his room , and for the rest of the day refused to see anyone , not even his wife .
At sunset , however , as no sound could be heard through the door , the princess grew quite frightened , and made such a noise that the prince was forced to draw back the bolt and let her come in .
` How pale you look , ' she cried , ` has anything hurt you ?
Tell me , I pray you , what is the matter , for perhaps I can help ! '
So the prince told her the whole story , and of the impossible task given him by the crocodile .
` How can a sand hole remain full of water ? '
asked he .
` Of course , it will all run through .
The crocodile called it a `` chance '' ; but he might as well have dragged me into the river at once .
He said truly that I can not escape him . '
` Oh , if that is all , ' cried the princess , ' I can set you free myself , for my fairy godmother taught me to know the use of plants and in the desert not far from here there grows a little four-leaved herb which will keep the water in the pit for a whole year .
I will go in search of it at dawn , and you can begin to dig the hole as soon as you like .
To comfort her husband , the princess had spoken lightly and gaily ; but she knew very well she had no light task before her .
Still , she was full of courage and energy , and determined that , one way or another , her husband should be saved .
It was still starlight when she left the palace on a snow-white donkey , and rode away from the river straight to the west .
For some time she could see nothing before her but a flat waste of sand , which became hotter and hotter as the sun rose higher and higher .
Then a dreadful thirst seized her and the donkey , but there was no stream to quench it , and if there had been she would hardly have had time to stop , for she still had far to go , and must be back before evening , or else the crocodile might declare that the prince had not fulfilled his conditions .
So she spoke cheering words to her donkey , who brayed in reply , and the two pushed steadily on .
Oh !
how glad they both were when they caught sight of a tall rock in the distance .
They forgot that they were thirsty , and that the sun was hot ; and the ground seemed to fly under their feet , till the donkey stopped of its own accord in the cool shadow .
But though the donkey might rest the princess could not , for the plant , as she knew , grew on the very top of the rock , and a wide chasm ran round the foot of it .
Luckily she had brought a rope with her , and making a noose at one end , she flung it across with all her might .
The first time it slid back slowly into the ditch , and she had to draw it up , and throw it again , but at length the noose caught on something , the princess could not see what , and had to trust her whole weight to this little bridge , which might snap and let her fall deep down among the rocks .
And in that case her death was as certain as that of the prince .
But nothing so dreadful happened .
The princess got safely to the other side , and then became the worst part of her task .
As fast as she put her foot on a ledge of the rock the stone broke away from under her , and left her in the same place as before .
Meanwhile the hours were passing , and it was nearly noon .
The heart of the poor princess was filled with despair , but she would not give up the struggle .
She looked round till she saw a small stone above her which seemed rather stronger than the rest , and by only poising her foot lightly on those that lay between , she managed by a great effort to reach it .
In this way , with torn and bleeding hands , she gained the top ; but here such a violent wind was blowing that she was almost blinded with dust , and was obliged to throw herself on the ground , and feel about after the precious herb .
For a few terrible moments she thought that the rock was bare , and that her journey had been to no purpose .
Feel where she would , there was nothing but grit and stones , when , suddenly , her fingers touched something soft in a crevice .
It was a plant , that was clear ; but was it the right one ?
See she could not , for the wind was blowing more fiercely than ever , so she lay where she was and counted the leaves .
One , two , three -- yes !
yes !
there were four !
And plucking a leaf she held it safe in her hand while she turned , almost stunned by the wind , to go down the rock .
When once she was safely over the side all became still in a moment , and she slid down the rock so fast that it was only a wonder that she did not land in the chasm .
However , by good luck , she stopped quite close to her rope bridge and was soon across it .
The donkey brayed joyfully at the sight of her , and set off home at his best speed , never seeming to know that the earth under his feet was nearly as hot as the sun above him .
On the bank of the great river he halted , and the princess rushed up to where the prince was standing by the pit he had digged in the dry sand , with a huge water pot beside it .
A little way off the crocodile lay blinking in the sun , with his sharp teeth and whity-yellow jaws wide open .
At a signal from the princess the prince poured the water in the hole , and the moment it reached the brim the princess flung in the four-leaved plant .
Would the charm work , or would the water trickle away slowly through the sand , and the prince fall a victim to that horrible monster ?
For half an hour they stood with their eyes rooted to the spot , but the hole remained as full as at the beginning , with the little green leaf floating on the top .
Then the prince turned with a shout of triumph , and the crocodile sulkily plunged into the river .
The prince had escape for ever the second of his three fates !
He stood there looking after the crocodile , and rejoicing that he was free , when he was startled by a wild duck which flew past them , seeking shelter among the rushes that bordered the edge of the stream .
In another instant his dog dashed by in hot pursuit , and knocked heavily against his master 's legs .
The prince staggered , lost his balance and fell backwards into the river , where the mud and the rushes caught him and held him fast .
He shrieked for help to his wife , who came running ; and luckily brought her rope with her .
The poor old dog was drowned , but the prince was pulled to shore .
` My wife , ' he said , ` has been stronger than my fate . '
-LSB- Adapted from Les Contes Populaires de l'Egypte Ancienne . -RSB-
The Fox and the Lapp Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole , watching the road that ran by at a little distance , and hoping to see something that might amuse him , for he was feeling very dull and rather cross .
For a long while he watched in vain ; everything seemed asleep , and not even a bird stirred overhead .
The fox grew crosser than ever , and he was just turning away in disgust from his place when he heard the sound of feet coming over the snow .
He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the road and said to himself : ' I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend to be dead !
This is a man driving a reindeer sledge , I know the tinkling of the harness .
And at any rate I shall have an adventure , and that is always something ! '
So he stretched himself out by the side of the road , carefully choosing a spot where the driver could not help seeing him , yet where the reindeer would not tread on him ; and all fell out just as he had expected .
The sledge-driver pulled up sharply , as his eyes lighted on the beautiful animal lying stiffly beside him , and jumping out he threw the fox into the bottom of the sledge , where the goods he was carrying were bound tightly together by ropes .
The fox did not move a muscle though his bones were sore from the fall , and the driver got back to his seat again and drove on merrily .
But before they had gone very far , the fox , who was near the edge , contrived to slip over , and when the Laplander saw him stretched out on the snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the other sledges that was fastened behind , for it was market-day at the nearest town , and the man had much to sell .
They drove on a little further , when some noise in the forest made the man turn his head , just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thump on to the frozen snow .
` That beast is bewitched ! '
he said to himself , and then he threw the fox into the last sledge of all , which had a cargo of fishes .
This was exactly what the cunning creature wanted , and he wriggled gently to the front and bit the cord which tied the sledge to the one before it so that it remained standing in the middle of the road .
Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a long while that one was missing ; indeed , he would have entered the town without knowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall .
Then he got down to secure more firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry , and going to the end of the long row , discovered that the sledge containing the fish and the fox was missing .
He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer and rode back along the way he had come , to find the sledge standing safe in the middle of the road ; but as the fox had bitten off the cord close to the noose there was no means of moving it away .
The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily .
As soon as he had loosened the sledge , he had taken his favourite fish from among the piles neatly arranged for sale , and had trotted off to the forest with it in his mouth .
By-and-by he met a bear , who stopped and said : ` Where did you find that fish , Mr. Fox ? '
` Oh , not far off , ' answered he ; ' I just stuck my tail in the stream close by the place where the elves dwell , and the fish hung on to it of itself . '
` Dear me , ' snarled the bear , who was hungry and not in a good temper , ` if the fish hung on to your tail , I suppose he will hang on to mine . '
` Yes , certainly , grandfather , ' replied the fox , ` if you have patience to suffer what I suffered . '
` Of course I can , ' replied the bear , ` what nonsense you talk !
Show me the way . '
So the fox led him to the bank of a stream , which , being in a warm place , had only lightly frozen in places , and was at this moment glittering in the spring sunshine .
` The elves bathe here , ' he said , ` and if you put in your tail the fish will catch hold of it .
But it is no use being in a hurry , or you will spoil everything . '
Then he trotted off , but only went out of sight of the bear , who stood still on the bank with his tail deep in the water .
Soon the sun set and it grew very cold and the ice formed rapidly , and the bear 's tail was fixed as tight as if a vice had held it ; and when the fox saw that everything had happened just as he had planned it , he called out loudly : ` Be quick , good people , and come with your bows and spears .
A bear has been fishing in your brook ! '
And in a moment the whole place was full of little creatures each one with a tiny bow and a spear hardly big enough for a baby ; but both arrows and spears could sting , as the bear knew very well , and in his fright he gave such a tug to his tail that it broke short off , and he rolled away into the forest as fast as his legs could carry him .
At this sight the fox held his sides for laughing , and then scampered away in another direction .
By-and-by he came to a fir tree , and crept into a hole under the root .
After that he did something very strange .
Taking one of his hind feet between his two front paws , he said softly : ` What would you do , my foot , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would run so quickly that he should not catch you . '
` What would you do , mine ear , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would listen so hard that I should hear all his plans . '
` What would you do , my nose , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would smell so sharply that I should know from afar that he was coming . '
` What would you do , my tail , if someone was to betray me ? ' '
I would steer you so straight a course that you would soon be beyond his reach .
Let us be off ; I feel as if danger was near . '
But the fox was comfortable where he was , and did not hurry himself to take his tail 's advice .
And before very long he found he was too late , for the bear had come round by another path , and guessing where his enemy was began to scratch at the roots of the tree .
The fox made himself as small as he could , but a scrap of his tail peeped out , and the bear seized it and held it tight .
Then the fox dug his claws into the ground , but he was not strong enough to pull against the bear , and slowly he was dragged forth and his body flung over the bear 's neck .
In this manner they set out down the road , the fox 's tail being always in the bear 's mouth .
After they had gone some way , they passed a tree-stump , on which a bright coloured woodpecker was tapping .
` Ah !
those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours , ' sighed the fox .
` What are you saying , old fellow ? '
asked the bear .
` I ?
Oh , I was saying nothing , ' answered the fox drearily .
` Just carry me to your cave and eat me up as quick as you can . '
The bear was silent , and thought of his supper ; and the two continued their journey till they reached another tree with a woodpecker tapping on it .
` Ah !
those were better times when I used to paint all the birds such gay colours , ' said the fox again to himself .
` Could n't you paint me too ? '
asked the bear suddenly .
But the fox shook his head ; for he was always acting , even if no one was there to see him do it .
` You bear pain so badly , ' he replied , in a thoughtful voice , ` and you are impatient besides , and could never put up with all that is necessary .
Why , you would first have to dig a pit , and then twist ropes of willow , and drive in posts and fill the hole with pitch , and , last of all , set it on fire .
Oh , no ; you would never be able to do all that . '
` It does not matter a straw how hard the work is , ' answered the bear eagerly , ' I will do it every bit . '
And as he spoke he began tearing up the earth so fast that soon a deep pit was ready , deep enough to hold him .
` That is all right , ' said the fox at last , ' I see I was mistaken in you .
Now sit here , and I will bind you . '
So the bear sat down on the edge of the pit , and the fox sprang on his back , which he crossed with the willow ropes , and then set fire to the pitch .
It burnt up in an instant , and caught the bands of willow and the bear 's rough hair ; but he did not stir , for he thought that the fox was rubbing the bright colours into his skin , and that he would soon be as beautiful as a whole meadow of flowers .
But when the fire grew hotter still he moved uneasily from one foot to the other , saying , imploringly : ` It is getting rather warm , old man . '
But all the answer he got was : ' I thought you would never be able to suffer pain like those little birds . '
The bear did not like being told that he was not as brave as a bird , so he set his teeth and resolved to endure anything sooner than speak again ; but by this time the last willow band had burned through , and with a push the fox sent his victim tumbling into the grass , and ran off to hide himself in the forest .
After a while he stole cautiously and found , as he expected , nothing left but a few charred bones .
These he picked up and put in a bag , which he slung over his back .
By-and-by he met a Lapp driving his team of reindeer along the road , and as he drew near , the fox rattled the bones gaily .
` That sounds like silver or gold , ' thought the man to himself .
And he said politely to the fox : ` Good-day , friend !
What have you got in your bag that makes such a strange sound ? '
` All the wealth my father left me , ' answered the fox .
` Do you feel inclined to bargain ? '
` Well , I do n't mind , ' replied the Lapp , who was a prudent man , and did not wish the fox to think him too eager ; ` but show me first what money you have got . '
` Ah , but I ca n't do that , ' answered the fox , ` my bag is sealed up .
But if you will give me those three reindeer , you shall take it as it is , with all its contents . '
The Lapp did not quite like it , but the fox spoke with such an air that his doubts melted away .
He nodded , and stretched out his hand ; the fox put the bag into it , and unharnassed the reindeer he had chosen .
` Oh , I forgot ! '
he exclaimed , turning round , as he was about to drive them in the opposite direction , ` you must be sure not to open the bag until you have gone at least five miles , right on the other side of those hills out there .
If you do , you will find that all the gold and silver has changed into a parcel of charred bones . '
Then he whipped up his reindeer , and was soon out of sight .
For some time the Lapp was satisfied with hearing the bones rattle , and thinking to himself what a good bargain he had made , and of all the things he would buy with the money .
But , after a bit , this amusement ceased to content him , and besides , what was the use of planning when you did not know for certain how rich you were ?
Perhaps there might be a great deal of silver and only a little gold in the bag ; or a great deal of gold , and only a little silver .
Who could tell ?
He would not , of course , take the money out to count it , for that might bring him bad luck .
But there could be no harm in just one peep !
So he slowly broke the seal , and untied the strings , and , behold , a heap of burnt bones lay before him !
In a minute he knew he had been tricked , and flinging the bag to the ground in a rage , he ran after the fox as fast as his snow-shoes would carry him .
Now the fox had guessed exactly what would happen , and was on the look out .
Directly he saw the little speck coming towards him , he wished that the man 's snow-shoes might break , and that very instant the Lapp 's shoes snapped in two .
The Lapp did now know that this was the fox 's work , but he had to stop and fetch one of his other reindeer , which he mounted , and set off again in pursuit of his enemy .
The fox soon heard him coming , and this time he wished that the reindeer might fall and break its leg .
And so it did ; and the man felt it was a hopeless chase , and that he was no match for the fox .
So the fox drove on in peace till he reached the cave where all his stores were kept , and then he began to wonder whom he could get to help him kill his reindeer , for though he could steal reindeer he was too small to kill them .
` After all , it will be quite easy , ' thought he , and he bade a squirrel , who was watching him on a tree close by , take a message to all the robber beasts of the forest , and in less than half an hour a great crashing of branches was heard , and bears , wolves , snakes , mice , frogs , and other creatures came pressing up to the cave .
When they heard why they had been summoned , they declared themselves ready each one to do his part .
The bear took his crossbow from his neck and shot the reindeer in the chin ; and , from that day to this , every reindeer has a mark in that same spot , which is always known as the bear 's arrow .
The wolf shot him in the thigh , and the sign of his arrow still remains ; and so with the mouse and the viper and all the rest , even the frog ; and at the last the reindeer all died .
And the fox did nothing , but looked on . '
I really must go down to the brook and wash myself , ' said he -LRB- though he was perfectly clean -RRB- , and he went under the bank and hid himself behind a stone .
From there he set up the most frightful shrieks , so that the animals fled away in all directions .
Only the mouse and the ermine remained where they were , for they thought that they were much too small to be noticed .
The fox continued his shrieks till he felt sure that the animals must have got to a safe distance ; then he crawled out of his hiding-place and went to the bodies of the reindeer , which he now had all to himself .
He gathered a bundle of sticks for a fire , and was just preparing to cook a steak , when his enemy , the Lapp , came up , panting with haste and excitement .
` What are you doing there ? '
cried he ; ` why did you palm off those bones on me ?
And why , when you had got the reindeer , did you kill them ? '
` Dear brother , ' answered the fox with a sob , ` do not blame me for this misfortune .
It is my comrades who have slain them in spite of my prayers . '
The man made no reply , for the white fur of the ermine , who was crouching with the mouse behind some stones , had just caught his eye .
He hastily seized the iron hook which hung over the fire and flung it at the little creature ; but the ermine was too quick for him , and the hook only touched the top of its tail , and that has remained black to this day .
As for the mouse , the Lapp threw a half-burnt stick after him , and though it was not enough to hurt him , his beautiful white skin was smeared all over with it , and all the washing in the world would not make him clean again .
And the man would have been wiser if he had let the ermine and the mouse alone , for when he turned round again he found he was alone .
Directly the fox noticed that his enemy 's attention had wandered from himself he watched his chance , and stole softly away till he had reached a clump of thick bushes , when he ran as fast as he could , till he reached a river , where a man was mending his boat .
` Oh , I wish , I wish , I had a boat to mend too ! '
he cried , sitting up on his hind-legs and looking into the man 's face .
` Stop your silly chatter ! '
answered the man crossly , ` or I will give you a bath in the river . '
` Oh , I wish , I do wish , I had a boat to mend , ' cried the fox again , as if he had not heard .
And the man grew angry and seized him by the tail , and threw him far out in the stream close to the edge of an island ; which was just what the fox wanted .
He easily scrambled up , and sitting on the top , he called : ` Hasten , hasten , O fishes , and carry me to the other side ! '
And the fishes left the stones where they had been sleeping , and the pools where they had been feeding , and hurried to see who could get to the island first . '
I have won , ' shouted the pike .
` Jump on my back , dear fox , and you will find yourself in a trice on the opposite shore . '
` No , thank you , ' answered the fox , ` your back is much too weak for me .
I should break it . '
` Try mine , ' said the eel , who had wriggled to the front .
` No , thank you , ' replied the fox again , ' I should slip over your head and be drowned . '
` You wo n't slip on MY back , ' said the perch , coming forward .
` No ; but you are really TOO rough , ' returned the fox .
` Well , you can have no fault to find with ME , ' put in the trout .
` Good gracious !
are YOU here ? '
exclaimed the fox .
` But I 'm afraid to trust myself to you either . '
At this moment a fine salmon swam slowly up .
` Ah , yes , you are the person I want , ' said the fox ; ` but come near , so that I may get on your back , without wetting my feet . '
So the salmon swam close under the island , and when he was touching it the fox seized him in his claws and drew him out of the water , and put him on a spit , while he kindled a fire to cook him by .
When everything was ready , and the water in the pot was getting hot , he popped him in , and waited till he thought the salmon was nearly boiled .
But as he stooped down the water gave a sudden fizzle , and splashed into the fox 's eyes , blinding him .
He started backwards with a cry of pain , and sat still for some minutes , rocking himself to and fro .
When he was a little better he rose and walked down a road till he met a grouse , who stopped and asked what was the matter .
` Have you a pair of eyes anywhere about you ? '
asked the fox politely .
` No , I am afraid I have n't , ' answered the grouse , and passed on .
A little while after the fox heard the buzzing of an early bee , whom a gleam of sun had tempted out .
` Do you happen to have an extra pair of eyes anywhere ? '
asked the fox . '
I am sorry to say I have only those I am using , ' replied the bee .
And the fox went on till he nearly fell over an asp who was gliding across the road . '
I should be SO glad if you would tell me where I could get a pair of eyes , ' said the fox . '
I suppose you do n't happen to have any you could lend me ? '
` Well , if you only want them for a short time , perhaps I could manage , ' answered the asp ; ` but I ca n't do without them for long . '
` Oh , it is only for a very short time that I need them , ' said the fox ; ' I have a pair of my own just behind that hill , and when I find them I will bring yours back to you .
Perhaps you will keep these till them . '
So he took the eyes out of his own head and popped them into the head of the asp , and put the asp 's eyes in their place .
As he was running off he cried over his shoulder : ` As long as the world lasts the asps ' eyes will go down in the heads of foxes from generation to generation . '
And so it has been ; and if you look at the eyes of an asp you will see that they are all burnt ; and though thousands and thousands of years have gone by since the fox was going about playing tricks upon everybody he met , the asp still bears the traces of the day when the sly creature cooked the salmon .
-LSB- Lapplandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Kisa the Cat Once upon a time there lived a queen who had a beautiful cat , the colour of smoke , with china-blue eyes , which she was very fond of .
The cat was constantly with her , and ran after her wherever she went , and even sat up proudly by her side when she drove out in her fine glass coach .
` Oh , pussy , ' said the queen one day , ` you are happier than I am !
For you have a dear kitten just like yourself , and I have nobody to play with but you . '
` Do n't cry , ' answered the cat , laying her paw on her mistress 's arm .
` Crying never does any good .
I will see what can be done . '
The cat was as good as her word .
As soon as she returned from her drive she trotted off to the forest to consult a fairy who dwelt there , and very soon after the queen had a little girl , who seemed made out of snow and sunbeams .
The queen was delighted , and soon the baby began to take notice of the kitten as she jumped about the room , and would not go to sleep at all unless the kitten lay curled up beside her .
Two or three months went by , and though the baby was still a baby , the kitten was fast becoming a cat , and one evening when , as usual , the nurse came to look for her , to put her in the baby 's cot , she was nowhere to be found .
What a hunt there was for that kitten , to be sure !
The servants , each anxious to find her , as the queen was certain to reward the lucky man , searched in the most impossible places .
Boxes were opened that would hardly have held the kitten 's paw ; books were taken from bookshelves , lest the kitten should have got behind them , drawers were pulled out , for perhaps the kitten might have got shut in .
But it was all no use .
The kitten had plainly run away , and nobody could tell if it would ever choose to come back .
Years passed away , and one day , when the princess was playing ball in the garden , she happened to throw her ball farther than usual , and it fell into a clump of rose-bushes .
The princess of course ran after it at once , and she was stooping down to feel if it was hidden in the long grass , when she heard a voice calling her : ` Ingibjorg !
Ingibjorg ! '
it said , ` have you forgotten me ?
I am Kisa , your sister ! '
` But I never HAD a sister , ' answered Ingibjorg , very much puzzled ; for she knew nothing of what had taken place so long ago .
` Do n't you remember how I always slept in your cot beside you , and how you cried till I came ?
But girls have no memories at all !
Why , I could find my way straight up to that cot this moment , if I was once inside the palace . '
` Why did you go away then ? '
asked the princess .
But before Kisa could answer , Ingibjorg 's attendants arrived breathless on the scene , and were so horrified at the sight of a strange cat , that Kisa plunged into the bushes and went back to the forest .
The princess was very much vexed with her ladies-in-waiting for frightening away her old playfellow , and told the queen who came to her room every evening to bid her good-night .
` Yes , it is quite true what Kisa said , ' answered the queen ; ' I should have liked to see her again .
Perhaps , some day , she will return , and then you must bring her to me . '
Next morning it was very hot , and the princess declared that she must go and play in the forest , where it was always cool , under the big shady trees .
As usual , her attendants let her do anything she pleased , and sitting down on a mossy bank where a little stream tinkled by , soon fell sound asleep .
The princess saw with delight that they would pay no heed to her , and wandered on and on , expecting every moment to see some fairies dancing round a ring , or some little brown elves peeping at her from behind a tree .
But , alas !
she met none of these ; instead , a horrible giant came out of his cave and ordered her to follow him .
The princess felt much afraid , as he was so big and ugly , and began to be sorry that she had not stayed within reach of help ; but as there was no use in disobeying the giant , she walked meekly behind .
They went a long way , and Ingibjorg grew very tired , and at length began to cry . '
I do n't like girls who make horrid noises , ' said the giant , turning round .
` But if you WANT to cry , I will give you something to cry for . '
And drawing an axe from his belt , he cut off both her feet , which he picked up and put in his pocket .
Then he went away .
Poor Ingibjorg lay on the grass in terrible pain , and wondering if she should stay there till she died , as no one would know where to look for her .
How long it was since she had set out in the morning she could not tell -- it seemed years to her , of course ; but the sun was still high in the heavens when she heard the sound of wheels , and then , with a great effort , for her throat was parched with fright and pain , she gave a shout . '
I am coming ! '
was the answer ; and in another moment a cart made its way through the trees , driven by Kisa , who used her tail as a whip to urge the horse to go faster .
Directly Kisa saw Ingibjorg lying there , she jumped quickly down , and lifting the girl carefully in her two front paws , laid her upon some soft hay , and drove back to her own little hut .
In the corner of the room was a pile of cushions , and these Kisa arranged as a bed .
Ingibjorg , who by this time was nearly fainting from all she had gone through , drank greedily some milk , and then sank back on the cushions while Kisa fetched some dried herbs from a cupboard , soaked them in warm water and tied them on the bleeding legs .
The pain vanished at once , and Ingibjorg looked up and smiled at Kisa .
` You will go to sleep now , ' said the cat , ` and you will not mind if I leave you for a little while .
I will lock the door , and no one can hurt you . '
But before she had finished the princess was asleep .
Then Kisa got into the cart , which was standing at the door , and catching up the reins , drove straight to the giant 's cave .
Leaving her cart behind some trees , Kisa crept gently up to the open door , and , crouching down , listened to what the giant was telling his wife , who was at supper with him .
` The first day that I can spare I shall just go back and kill her , ' he said ; ` it would never do for people in the forest to know that a mere girl can defy me ! '
And he and his wife were so busy calling Ingibjorg all sorts of names for her bad behaviour , that they never noticed Kisa stealing into a dark corner , and upsetting a whole bag of salt into the great pot before the fire .
` Dear me , how thirsty I am ! '
cried the giant by-and-by .
` So am I , ' answered the wife . '
I do wish I had not taken that last spoonful of broth ; I am sure something was wrong with it . '
` If I do n't get some water I shall die , ' went on the giant .
And rushing out of the cave , followed by his wife , he ran down the path which led to the river .
Then Kisa entered the hut , and lost no time in searching every hole till she came upon some grass , under which Ingibjorg 's feet were hidden , and putting them in her cart , drove back again to her own hut .
Ingibjorg was thankful to see her , for she had lain , too frightened to sleep , trembling at every noise .
` Oh , is it you ? '
she cried joyfully , as Kisa turned the key .
And the cat came in , holding up the two neat little feet in their silver slippers .
` In two minutes they shall be as tight as they ever were ! '
said Kisa .
And taking some strings of the magic grass which the giant had carelessly heaped on them , she bound the feet on to the legs above .
` Of course you wo n't be able to walk for some time ; you must not expect THAT , ' she continued .
` But if you are very good , perhaps , in about a week , I may carry you home again . '
And so she did ; and when the cat drove the cart up to the palace gate , lashing the horse furiously with her tail , and the king and queen saw their lost daughter sitting beside her , they declared that no reward could be too great for the person who had brought her out of the giant 's hands .
` We will talk about that by-and-by , ' said the cat , as she made her best bow , and turned her horse 's head .
The princess was very unhappy when Kisa left her without even bidding her farewell .
She would neither eat nor drink , nor take any notice of all the beautiful dresses her parents bought for her .
` She will die , unless we can make her laugh , ' one whispered to the other .
` Is there anything in the world that we have left untried ? '
` Nothing except marriage , ' answered the king .
And he invited all the handsomest young men he could think of to the palace , and bade the princess choose a husband from among them .
It took her some time to decide which she admired the most , but at last she fixed upon a young prince , whose eyes were like the pools in the forest , and his hair of bright gold .
The king and the queen were greatly pleased , as the young man was the son of a neighbouring king , and they gave orders that a splendid feast should be got ready .
When the marriage was over , Kisa suddenly stood before them , and Ingibjorg rushed forward and clasped her in her arms . '
I have come to claim my reward , ' said the cat .
` Let me sleep for this night at the foot of your bed . '
` Is that ALL ? '
asked Ingibjorg , much disappointed .
` It is enough , ' answered the cat .
And when the morning dawned , it was no cat that lay upon the bed , but a beautiful princess .
` My mother and I were both enchanted by a spiteful fairy , ' said she , ` we could not free ourselves till we had done some kindly deed that had never been wrought before .
My mother died without ever finding a chance of doing anything new , but I took advantage of the evil act of the giant to make you as whole as ever . '
Then they were all more delighted than before , and the princess lived in the court until she , too , married , and went away to govern one of her own .
-LSB- Adapted from Neuislandischen Volksmarchen . -RSB-
The Lion and the Cat Far away on the other side of the world there lived , long ago , a lion and his younger brother , the wild cat , who were so fond of each other that they shared the same hut .
The lion was much the bigger and stronger of the two -- indeed , he was much bigger and stronger than any of the beasts that dwelt in the forest ; and , besides , he could jump father and run faster than all the rest .
If strength and swiftness could gain him a dinner he was sure never to be without one , but when it came to cunning , both the grizzly bear and the serpent could get the better of him , and he was forced to call in the help of the wild cat .
Now the young wild cat had a lovely golden ball , so beautiful that you could hardly look at it except through a piece of smoked glass , and he kept it hidden in the thick fur muff that went round his neck .
A very large old animal , since dead , had given it to him when he was hardly more than a baby , and had told him never to part with it , for as long as he kept it no harm could ever come near him .
In general the wild cat did not need to use his ball , for the lion was fond of hunting , and could kill all the food that they needed ; but now and then his life would have been in danger had it not been for the golden ball .
One day the two brothers started to hunt at daybreak , but as the cat could not run nearly as fast as the lion , he had quite a long start .
At least he THOUGHT it was a long one , but in a very few bounds and springs the lion reached his side .
` There is a bear sitting on that tree , ' he whispered softly .
` He is only waiting for us to pass , to drop down on my back . '
` Ah , you are so big that he does not see I am behind you , ' answered the wild cat .
And , touching the ball , he just said : ` Bear , die ! '
And the bear tumbled dead out of the tree , and rolled over just in front of them .
For some time they trotted on without any adventures , till just as they were about to cross a strip of long grass on the edge of the forest , the lion 's quick ears detected a faint rustling noise .
` That is a snake , ' he cried , stopping short , for he was much more afraid of snakes than of bears .
` Oh , it is all right , ' answered the cat .
` Snake , die ! '
And the snake died , and the two brothers skinned it .
They then folded the skin up into a very small parcel , and the cat tucked it into his mane , for snakes ' skins can do all sorts of wonderful things , if you are lucky enough to have one of them .
All this time they had had no dinner , for the snake 's flesh was not nice , and the lion did not like eating bear -- perhaps because he never felt sure that the bear was REALLY dead , and would not jump up alive when his enemy went near him .
Most people are afraid of SOME thing , and bears and serpents were the only creatures that caused the lion 's heart to tremble .
So the two brothers set off again and soon reached the side of a hill where some fine deer were grazing .
` Kill one of those deer for your own dinner , ' said the boy-brother , ` but catch me another alive .
I want him . '
The lion at once sprang towards them with a loud roar , but the deer bounded away , and they were all three soon lost to sight .
The cat waited for a long while , but finding that the lion did not return , went back to the house where they lived .
It was quite dark when the lion came home , where his brother was sitting curled up in one corner .
` Did you catch the deer for me ? '
asked the boy-brother , springing up .
` Well , no , ' replied the man-brother .
` The fact is , that I did not get up to them till we had run half way across the world and left the wind far behind us .
Think what a trouble it would have been to drag it here !
So -- I just ate them both . '
The cat said nothing , but he did not feel that he loved his big brother .
He had thought a great deal about that deer , and had meant to get on his back to ride him as a horse , and go to see all the wonderful places the lion talked to him about when he was in a good temper .
The more he thought of it the more sulky he grew , and in the morning , when the lion said that it was time for them to start to hunt , the cat told him that he might kill the bear and snake by himself , as HE had a headache , and would rather stay at home .
The little fellow knew quite well that the lion would not dare to go out without him and his ball for fear of meeting a bear or a snake .
The quarrel went on , and for many days neither of the brothers spoke to each other , and what made them still more cross was , that they could get very little to eat , and we know that people are often cross when they are hungry .
At last it occurred to the lion that if he could only steal the magic ball he could kill bears and snakes for himself , and then the cat might be as sulky as he liked for anything that it would matter .
But how was the stealing to be done ?
The cat had the ball hung round his neck day and night , and he was such a light sleeper that it was useless to think of taking it while he slept .
No !
the only thing was to get him to lend it of his own accord , and after some days the lion -LRB- who was not at all clever -RRB- hit upon a plan that he thought would do .
` Dear me , how dull it is here ! '
said the lion one afternoon , when the rain was pouring down in such torrents that , however sharp your eyes or your nose might be , you could not spy a single bird or beast among the bushes .
` Dear me , how dull , how dreadfully dull I am .
Could n't we have a game of catch with that golden ball of yours ? ' '
I do n't care about playing catch , it does not amuse me , ' answered the cat , who was as cross as ever ; for no cat , even to this day , ever forgets an injury done to him .
` Well , then , lend me the ball for a little , and I will play by myself , ' replied the lion , stretching out a paw as he spoke .
` You ca n't play in the rain , and if you did , you would only lose it in the bushes , ' said the cat .
` Oh , no , I wo n't ; I will play in here .
Do n't be so ill-natured . '
And with a very bad grace the cat untied the string and threw the golden ball into the lion 's lap , and composed himself to sleep again .
For a long while the lion tossed it up and down gaily , feeling that , however sound asleep the boy-brother might LOOK , he was sure to have one eye open ; but gradually he began to edge closer to the opening , and at last gave such a toss that the ball went up high into the air , and he could not see what became of it .
` Oh , how stupid of me ! '
he cried , as the cat sprang up angrily , ` let us go at once and search for it .
It ca n't really have fallen very far . '
But though they searched that day and the next , and the next after that , they never found it , because it never came down .
After the loss of his ball the cat refused to live with the lion any longer , but wandered away to the north , always hoping he might meet with his ball again .
But months passed , and years passed , and though he travelled over hundreds of miles , he never saw any traces of it .
At length , when he was getting quite old , he came to a place unlike any that he had ever seen before , where a big river rolled right to the foot of some high mountains .
The ground all about the river bank was damp and marshy , and as no cat likes to wet its feet , this one climbed a tree that rose high above the water , and thought sadly of his lost ball , which would have helped him out of this horrible place .
Suddenly he saw a beautiful ball , for all the world like his own , dangling from a branch of the tree he was on .
He longed to get at it ; but was the branch strong enough to bear his weight ?
It was no use , after all he had done , getting drowned in the water .
However , it could do no harm , if he was to go a little way ; he could always manage to get back somehow .
So he stretched himself at full length upon the branch , and wriggled his body cautiously along .
To his delight it seemed thick and stout .
Another movement , and , by stretching out his paw , he would be able to draw the string towards him , when the branch gave a loud crack , and the cat made haste to wriggle himself back the way he had come .
But when cats make up their minds to do anything they generally DO it ; and this cat began to look about to see if there was really no way of getting at his ball .
Yes !
there was , and it was much surer than the other , though rather more difficult .
Above the bough where the ball was hung was another bough much thicker , which he knew could not break with his weight ; and by holding on tight to this with all his four paws , he could just manage to touch the ball with his tail .
He would thus be able to whisk the ball to and fro till , by-and-by , the string would become quite loose , and it would fall to the ground .
It might take some time , but the lion 's little brother was patient , like most cats .
Well , it all happened just as the cat intended it should , and when the ball dropped on the ground the cat ran down the tree like lightning , and , picking it up , tucked it away in the snake 's skin round his neck .
Then he began jumping along the shore of the Big Water from one place to another , trying to find a boat , or even a log of wood , that would take him across .
But there was nothing ; only , on the other side , he saw two girls cooking , and though he shouted to them at the top of his voice , they were too far off to hear what he said .
And , what was worse , the ball suddenly fell out of its snake 's skin bag right into the river .
Now , it is not at all an uncommon thing for balls to tumble into rivers , but in that case they generally either fall to the bottom and stay there , or else bob about on the top of the water close to where they first touched it .
But this ball , instead of doing either of these things , went straight across to the other side , and there one of the girls saw it when she stooped to dip some water into her pail .
` Oh !
what a lovely ball ! '
cried she , and tried to catch it in her pail ; but the ball always kept bobbing just out of her reach .
` Come and help me ! '
she called to her sister , and after a long while they had the ball safe inside the pail .
They were delighted with their new toy , and one or the other held it in her hand till bedtime came , and then it was a long time before they could make up their minds where it would be safest for the night .
At last they locked it in a cupboard in one corner of their room , and as there was no hole anywhere the ball could not possibly get out .
After that they went to sleep .
In the morning the first thing they both did was to run to the cupboard and unlock it , but when the door opened they started back , for , instead of the ball , there stood a handsome young man .
` Ladies , ' he said , ` how can I thank you for what you have done for me ?
Long , long ago , I was enchanted by a wicked fairy , and condemned to keep the shape of a ball till I should meet with two maidens , who would take me to their own home .
But where was I to meet them ?
For hundreds of years I have lived in the depths of the forest , where nothing but wild beasts ever came , and it was only when the lion threw me into the sky that I was able to fall to earth near this river .
Where there is a river , sooner or later people will come ; so , hanging myself on a tree , I watched and waited .
For a moment I lost heart when I fell once more into the hands of my old master the wild cat , but my hopes rose again as I saw he was making for the river bank opposite where you were standing .
That was my chance , and I took it .
And now , ladies , I have only to say that , if ever I can do anything to help you , go to the top of that high mountain and knock three times at the iron door at the north side , and I will come to you . '
So , with a low bow , he vanished from before them , leaving the maidens weeping at having lost in one moment both the ball and the prince .
-LSB- Adapted from North American Indian Legends . -RSB-
Which was the Foolishest ?
In a little village that stood on a wide plain , where you could see the sun from the moment he rose to the moment he set , there lived two couples side by side .
The men , who worked under the same master , were quite good friends , but the wives were always quarrelling , and the subject they quarrelled most about was -- which of the two had the stupidest husband .
Unlike most women -- who think that anything that belongs to them must be better than what belongs to anyone else -- each thought her husband the more foolish of the two .
` You should just see what he does ! '
one said to her neighbour .
` He puts on the baby 's frock upside down , and , one day , I found him trying to feed her with boiling soup , and her mouth was scalded for days after .
Then he picks up stones in the road and sows them instead of potatoes , and one day he wanted to go into the garden from the top window , because he declared it was a shorter way than through the door . '
` That is bad enough , of course , ' answered the other ; ` but it is really NOTHING to what I have to endure every day from MY husband .
If , when I am busy , I ask him to go and feed the poultry , he is certain to give them some poisonous stuff instead of their proper food , and when I visit the yard next I find them all dead .
Once he even took my best bonnet , when I had gone away to my sick mother , and when I came back I found he had given it to the hen to lay her eggs in .
And you know yourself that , only last week , when I sent him to buy a cask of butter , he returned driving a hundred and fifty ducks which someone had induced him to take , and not one of them would lay . '
` Yes , I am afraid he IS trying , ' replied the first ; ` but let us put them to the proof , and see which of them is the most foolish . '
So , about the time that she expected her husband home from work , she got out her spinning-wheel , and sat busily turning it , taking care not even to look up from her work when the man came in .
For some minutes he stood with his mouth open watching her , and as she still remained silent , he said at last : ` Have you gone mad , wife , that you sit spinning without anything on the wheel ? '
` YOU may think that there is nothing on it , ' answered she , ` but I can assure you that there is a large skein of wool , so fine that nobody can see it , which will be woven into a coat for you . '
` Dear me ! '
he replied , ` what a clever wife I have got !
If you had not told me I should never have known that there was any wool on the wheel at all .
But now I really do seem to see something . '
The woman smiled and was silent , and after spinning busily for an hour more , she got up from her stoop , and began to weave as fast as she could .
At last she got up , and said to her husband : ' I am too tired to finish it to-night , so I shall go to bed , and to-morrow I shall only have the cutting and stitching to do . '
So the next morning she got up early , and after she had cleaned her house , and fed her chickens , and put everything in its place again , she bent over the kitchen table , and the sound of her big scissors might be heard snip !
snap !
as far as the garden .
Her husband could not see anything to snip at ; but then he was so stupid that was not surprising !
After the cutting came the sewing .
The woman patted and pinned and fixed and joined , and then , turning to the man , she said : ` Now it is ready for you to try on . '
And she made him take off his coat , and stand up in front of her , and once more she patted an pinned and fixed and joined , and was very careful in smoothing out every wrinkle .
` It does not feel very warm , ' observed the man at last , when he had borne all this patiently for a long time .
` That is because it is so fine , ' answered she ; ` you do not want it to be as thick as the rough clothes you wear every day . '
He DID , but was ashamed to say so , and only answered : ` Well , I am sure it must be beautiful since you say so , and I shall be smarter than anyone in the whole village .
`` What a splendid coat ! ''
they will exclaim when they see me .
But it is not everybody who has a wife as clever as mine . '
Meanwhile the other wife was not idle .
As soon as her husband entered she looked at him with such a look of terror that the poor man was quite frightened .
` Why do you stare at me so ?
Is there anything the matter ? '
asked he .
` Oh !
go to bed at once , ' she cried ; ` you must be very ill indeed to look like that ! '
The man was rather surprised at first , as he felt particularly well that evening ; but the moment his wife spoke he became quite certain that he had something dreadful the matter with him , and grew quite pale . '
I dare say it would be the best place for me , ' he answered , trembling ; and he suffered his wife to take him upstairs , and to help him off with his clothes .
` If you sleep well during the might there MAY be a chance for you , ' said she , shaking her head , as she tucked him up warmly ; ` but if not -- ' And of course the poor man never closed an eye till the sun rose .
` How do you feel this morning ? '
asked the woman , coming in on tip-toe when her house-work was finished .
` Oh , bad ; very bad indeed , ' answered he ; ' I have not slept for a moment .
Can you think of nothing to make me better ? ' '
I will try everything that is possible , ' said the wife , who did not in the least wish her husband to die , but was determined to show that he was more foolish that the other man . '
I will get some dried herbs and make you a drink , but I am very much afraid that it is too late .
Why did you not tell me before ? ' '
I thought perhaps the pain would go off in a day or two ; and , besides , I did not want to make you unhappy , ' answered the man , who was by this time quite sure he had been suffering tortures , and had borne them like a hero .
` Of course , if I had had any idea how ill I really was , I should have spoken at once . '
` Well , well , I will see what can be done , ' said the wife , ` but talking is not good for you .
Lie still , and keep yourself warm . '
All that day the man lay in bed , and whenever his wife entered the room and asked him , with a shake of the head , how he felt , he always replied that he was getting worse .
At last , in the evening , she burst into tears , and when he inquired what was the matter , she sobbed out : ` Oh , my poor , poor husband , are you really dead ?
I must go to-morrow and order your coffin . '
Now , when the man heard this , a cold shiver ran through his body , and all at once he knew that he was as well as he had ever been in his life .
` Oh , no , no ! '
he cried , ' I feel quite recovered !
Indeed , I think I shall go out to work . '
` You will do no such thing , ' replied his wife .
` Just keep quite quiet , for before the sun rises you will be a dead man . '
The man was very frightened at her words , and lay absolutely still while the undertaker came and measured him for his coffin ; and his wife gave orders to the gravedigger about his grave .
That evening the coffin was sent home , and in the morning at nine o'clock the woman put him on a long flannel garment , and called to the undertaker 's men to fasten down the lid and carry him to the grave , where all their friends were waiting them .
Just as the body was being placed in the ground the other woman 's husband came running up , dressed , as far as anyone could see , in no clothes at all .
Everybody burst into shouts of laughter at the sight of him , and the men laid down the coffin and laughed too , till their sides nearly split .
The dead man was so astonished at this behaviour , that he peeped out of a little window in the side of the coffin , and cried out : ' I should laugh as loudly as any of you , if I were not a dead man . '
When they heard the voice coming from the coffin the other people suddenly stopped laughing , and stood as if they had been turned into stone .
Then they rushed with one accord to the coffin , and lifted the lid so that the man could step out amongst them .
` Were you really not dead after all ? '
asked they .
` And if not , why did you let yourself be buried ? '
At this the wives both confessed that they had each wished to prove that her husband was stupider than the other .
But the villagers declared that they could not decide which was the most foolish -- the man who allowed himself to be persuaded that he was wearing fine clothes when he was dressed in nothing , or the man who let himself be buried when he was alive and well .
So the women quarrelled just as much as they did before , and no one ever knew whose husband was the most foolish .
-LSB- Adapted from the Neuislandische Volksmarchen . -RSB-
Asmund and Signy Long , long ago , in the days when fairies , witches , giants and ogres still visited the earth , there lived a king who reigned over a great and beautiful country .
He was married to a wife whom he dearly loved , and had two most promising children -- a son called Asmund , and a daughter who was named Signy .
The king and queen were very anxious to bring their children up well , and the young prince and princess were taught everything likely to make them clever and accomplished .
They lived at home in their father 's palace , and he spared no pains to make their lives happy .
Prince Asmund dearly loved all outdoor sports and an open-air life , and from his earliest childhood he had longed to live entirely in the forest close by .
After many arguments and entreaties he succeeded in persuading the king to give him two great oak trees for his very own .
` Now , ' said he to his sister , ' I will have the trees hollowed out , and then I will make rooms in them and furnish them so that I shall be able to live out in the forest . '
` Oh , Asmund ! '
exclaimed Signy , ` what a delightful idea !
Do let me come too , and live in one of your trees .
I will bring all my pretty things and ornaments , and the trees are so near home we shall be quite safe in them . '
Asmund , who was extremely fond of his sister , readily consented , and they had a very happy time together , carrying over all their pet treasures , and Signy 's jewels and other ornaments , and arranging them in the pretty little rooms inside the trees .
Unfortunately sadder days were to come .
A war with another country broke out , and the king had to lead his army against their enemy .
During his absence the queen fell ill , and after lingering for some time she died , to the great grief of her children .
They made up their minds to live altogether for a time in their trees , and for this purpose they had provisions enough stored up inside to last them a year .
Now , I must tell you , in another country a long way off , there reigned a king who had an only son named Ring .
Prince Ring had heard so much about the beauty and goodness of Princess Signy that he determined to marry her if possible .
So he begged his father to let him have a ship for the voyage , set sail with a favourable wind , and after a time landed in the country where Signy lived .
The prince lost no time in setting out for the royal palace , and on his way there he met such a wonderfully lovely woman that he felt he had never seen such beauty in all his life .
He stopped her and at once asked who she was . '
I am Signy , the king 's daughter , ' was the reply .
Then the prince inquired why she was wandering about all by herself , and she told him that since her mother 's death she was so sad that whilst her father was away she preferred being alone .
Ring was quite deceived by her , and never guessed that she was not Princess Signy at all , but a strong , gigantic , wicked witch bent on deceiving him under a beautiful shape .
He confided to her that he had travelled all the way from his own country for her sake , having fallen in love with the accounts he had heard of her beauty , and he then and there asked her to be his wife .
The witch listened to all he said and , much pleased , ended by accepting his offer ; but she begged him to return to his ship for a little while as she wished to go some way further into the forest , promising to join him later on .
Prince Ring did as she wished and went back to his ship to wait , whilst she walked on into the forest till she reached the two oak trees .
Here she resumed her own gigantic shape , tore up the trees by their roots , threw one of them over her back and clasped the other to her breast , carried them down to the shore and waded out with them to the ship .
She took care not to be noticed as she reached the ship , and directly she got on board she once more changed to her former lovely appearance and told the prince that her luggage was now all on board , and that they need wait for nothing more .
The prince gave orders to set sail at once , and after a fine voyage landed in his own country , where his parents and his only sister received him with the greatest joy and affection .
The false Signy was also very kindly welcomed .
A beautiful house was got ready for her , and Prince Ring had the two oaks planted in the garden just in front of her windows so that she might have the pleasure of seeing them constantly .
He often went to visit the witch , whom he believed to be Princess Signy , and one day he asked : ` Do n't you think we might be married before long ? '
` Yes , ' said she , quite pleased , ' I am quite ready to marry you whenever you like . '
` Then , ' replied Ring , ` let us decide on this day fortnight .
And see , I have brought you some stuff to make your wedding-dress of . '
So saying he gave her a large piece of the most beautiful brocade , all woven over with gold threads , and embroidered with pearls and other jewels .
The prince had hardly left her before the witch resumed her proper shape and tore about the room , raging and storming and flinging the beautiful silk on the floor .
` What was SHE to do with such things ? '
she roared .
` SHE did not know how to sew or make clothes , and she was sure to die of starvation into the bargain if her brother Ironhead did not come soon and bring her some raw meat and bones , for she really could eat nothing else . '
As she was raving and roaring in this frantic manner part of the floor suddenly opened and a huge giant rose up carrying a great chest in his arms .
The witch was enchanted at this sight , and eagerly helped her brother to set down and open the chest , which was full of the ghastly food she had been longing for .
The horrid pair set to and greedily devoured it all , and when the chest was quite empty the giant put it on his shoulder and disappeared as he had come , without leaving any trace of his visit .
But his sister did not keep quiet for long , and tore and pulled at the rich brocade as if she wanted to destroy it , stamping about and shouting angrily .
Now , all this time Prince Asmund and his sister sat in their trees just outside the window and saw all that was going on .
` Dear Signy , ' said Asmund , ` do try to get hold of that piece of brocade and make the clothes yourself , for really we shall have no rest day or night with such a noise . ' '
I will try , ' said Signy ; ` it wo n't be an easy matter , but it 's worth while taking some trouble to have a little peace . '
So she watched for an opportunity and managed to carry off the brocade the first time the witch left her room .
Then she set to work , cutting out and sewing as best she could , and by the end of six days she had turned it into an elegant robe with a long train and a mantle .
When it was finished she climbed to the top of her tree and contrived to throw the clothes on to a table through the open window .
How delighted the witch was when she found the clothes all finished !
The next time Prince Ring came to see her she gave them to him , and he paid her many compliments on her skilful work , after which he took leave of her in the most friendly manner .
But he had scarcely left the house when the witch began to rage as furiously as ever , and never stopped till her brother Ironhead appeared .
When Asmund saw all these wild doings from his tree he felt he could no longer keep silence .
He went to Prince Ring and said : ` Do come with me and see the strange things that are happening in the new princess 's room . '
The prince was not a little surprised , but he consented to hide himself with Asmund behind the panelling of the room , from where they could see all that went on through a little slit .
The witch was raving and roaring as usual , and said to her brother : ` Once I am married to the king 's son I shall be better off than now .
I shall take care to have all that pack of courtiers put to death , and then I shall send for all my relations to come and live here instead .
I fancy the giants will enjoy themselves very much with me and my husband . '
When Prince Ring heard this he fell into such a rage that he ordered the house to be set on fire , and it was burnt to the ground , with the witch and her brother in it .
Asmund then told the prince about the two oak trees and took him to see them .
The prince was quite astonished at them and at all their contents , but still more so at the extreme beauty of Signy .
He fell in love with her at once , and entreated her to marry him , which , after a time , she consented to do .
Asmund , on his side , asked for the hand of Prince Ring 's sister , which was gladly granted him , and the double wedding was celebrated with great rejoicings .
After this Prince Asmund and his bride returned to his country to live with the king his father .
The two couples often met , and lived happily for many , many years .
And that is the end of the story .
-LSB- From Islandische Mahrchen . -RSB-
Rubezahl Over all the vast under-world the mountain Gnome Rubezahl was lord ; and busy enough the care of his dominions kept him .
There were the endless treasure chambers to be gone through , and the hosts of gnomes to be kept to their tasks .
Some built strong barriers to hold back the fiery vapours to change dull stones to precious metal , or were hard at work filling every cranny of the rocks with diamonds and rubies ; for Rubezahl loved all pretty things .
Sometimes the fancy would take him to leave those gloomy regions , and come out upon the green earth for a while , and bask in the sunshine and hear the birds sing .
And as gnomes live many hundreds of years he saw strange things .
For , the first time he came up , the great hills were covered with thick forests , in which wild animals roamed , and Rubezahl watched the fierce fights between bear and bison , or chased the grey wolves , or amused himself by rolling great rocks down into the desolate valleys , to hear the thunder of their fall echoing among the hills .
But the next time he ventured above ground , what was his surprise to find everything changed !
The dark woods were hewn down , and in their place appeared blossoming orchards surrounding cosy-looking thatched cottages ; for every chimney the blue smoke curled peacefully into the air , sheep and oxen fed in the flowery meadows , while from the shade of the hedges came the music of the shepherd 's pipe .
The strangeness and pleasantness of the sight so delighted the gnome that he never thought of resenting the intrusion of these unexpected guests , who , without saying ` by your leave ' or ` with your leave , ' had made themselves so very much at home upon is hills ; nor did he wish to interfere with their doings , but left them in quiet possession of their homes , as a good householder leaves in peace the swallows who have built their nests under his eaves .
He was indeed greatly minded to make friends with this being called ` man , ' so , taking the form of an old field labourer , he entered the service of a farmer .
Under his care all the crops flourished exceedingly , but the master proved to be wasteful and ungrateful , and Rubezahl soon left him , and went to be shepherd to his next neighbour .
He tended the flock so diligently , and knew so well where to lead the sheep to the sweetest pastures , and where among the hills to look for any who strayed away , that they too prospered under his care , and not one was lost or torn by wolves ; but this new master was a hard man , and begrudged him his well-earned wages .
So he ran away and went to serve the judge .
Here he upheld the law with might and main , and was a terror to thieves and evildoers ; but the judge was a bad man , who took bribes , and despised the law .
Rubezahl would not be the tool of an unjust man , and so he told his master , who thereupon ordered him to be thrown in prison .
Of course that did not trouble the gnome at all , he simply got out through the keyhole , and went away down to his underground palace , very much disappointed by his first experience of mankind .
But , as time went on , he forgot the disagreeable things that had happened to him , and thought he would take another look at the upper world .
So he stole into the valley , keeping himself carefully hidden in copse or hedgerow , and very soon met with an adventure ; for , peeping through a screen of leaves , he saw before him a green lawn where stood a charming maiden , fresh as the spring , and beautiful to look upon .
Around her upon the grass lay her young companions , as if they had thrown themselves down to rest after some merry game .
Beyond them flowed a little brook , into which a waterfall leapt from a high rock , filling the air with its pleasant sound , and making a coolness even in the sultry noontide .
The sight of the maiden so pleased the gnome that , for the first time , he wished himself a mortal ; and , longing for a better view of the gay company , he changed himself into a raven and perched upon an oaktree which overhung the brook .
But he soon found that this was not at all a good plan .
He could only see with a raven 's eyes , and feel as a raven feels ; and a nest of field-mice at the foot of the tree interested him far more than the sport of the maidens .
When he understood this he flew down again in a great hurry into the thicket , and took the form of a handsome young man -- that was the best way -- and he fell in love with the girl then and there .
The fair maiden was the daughter of the king of the country , and she often wandered in the forest with her play fellows gathering the wild flowers and fruits , till the midday heat drove the merry band to the shady lawn by the brook to rest , or to bathe in the cool waters .
On this particular morning the fancy took them to wander off again into the wood .
This was Master Rubezahl 's opportunity .
Stepping out of his hiding-place he stood in the midst of the little lawn , weaving his magic spells , till slowly all about him changed , and when the maidens returned at noon to their favourite resting-place they stood lost in amazement , and almost fancied that they must be dreaming .
The red rocks had become white marble and alabaster ; the stream that murmured and struggled before in its rocky bed , flowed in silence now in its smooth channel , from which a clear fountain leapt , to fall again in showers of diamond drops , now on this side now on that , as the wandering breeze scattered it .
Daisies and forget-me-nots fringed its brink , while tall hedges of roses and jasmine ringed it round , making the sweetest and daintiest bower imaginable .
To the right and left of the waterfall opened out a wonderful grotto , its walls and arches glittering with many-coloured rock-crystals , while in every niche were spread out strange fruits and sweetmeats , the very sight of which made the princess long to taste them .
She hesitated a while , however , scarcely able to believe her eyes , and not knowing if she should enter the enchanted spot or fly from it .
But at length curiosity prevailed , and she and her companions explored to their heart 's content , and tasted and examined everything , running hither and thither in high glee , and calling merrily to each other .
At last , when they were quite weary , the princess cried out suddenly that nothing would content her but to bathe in the marble pool , which certainly did look very inviting ; and they all went gaily to this new amusement .
The princess was ready first , but scarcely had she slipped over the rim of the pool when down -- down -- down she sank , and vanished in its depths before her frightened playmates could seize her by so much as a lock of her floating golden hair !
Loudly did they weep and wail , running about the brink of the pool , which looked so shallow and so clear , but which had swallowed up their princess before their eyes .
They even sprang into the water and tried to dive after her , but in vain ; they only floated like corks in the enchanted pool , and could not keep under water for a second .
They saw at last that there was nothing for it but to carry to the king the sad tidings of his beloved daughter 's disappearance .
And what great weeping and lamentation there was in the palace when the dreadful news was told !
The king tore his robes , dashed his golden crown from his head , and hid his face in his purple mantle for grief and anguish at the loss of the princess .
After the first outburst of wailing , however , he took heart and hurried off to see for himself the scene of this strange adventure , thinking , as people will in sorrow , that there might be some mistake after all .
But when he reached the spot , behold , all was changed again !
The glittering grotto described to him by the maidens had completely vanished , and so had the marble bath , the bower of jasmine ; instead , all was a tangle of flowers , as it had been of old .
The king was so much perplexed that he threatened the princess 's playfellows with all sorts of punishments if they would not confess something about her disappearance ; but as they only repeated the same story he presently put down the whole affair to the work of some sprite or goblin , and tried to console himself for his loss by ordering a grand hunt ; for kings can not bear to be troubled about anything long .
Meanwhile the princess was not at all unhappy in the palace of her elfish lover .
When the water-nymphs , who were hiding in readiness , had caught her and dragged her out of the sight of her terrified maidens , she herself had not had time to be frightened .
They swam with her quickly by strange underground ways to a palace so splendid that her father 's seemed but a poor cottage in comparison with it , and when she recovered from her astonishment she found herself seated upon a couch , wrapped in a wonderful robe of satin fastened with a silken girdle , while beside her knelt a young man who whispered the sweetest speeches imaginable in her ear .
The gnome , for he it was , told her all about himself and his great underground kingdom , and presently led her through the many rooms and halls of the palace , and showed her the rare and wonderful things displayed in them till she was fairly dazzled at the sight of so much splendour .
On three sides of the castle lay a lovely garden with masses of gay , sweet flowers , and velvet lawns all cool and shady , which pleased the eye of the princess .
The fruit trees were hung with golden and rosy apples , and nightingales sang in every bush , as the gnome and the princess wandered in the leafy alleys , sometimes gazing at the moon , sometimes pausing to gather the rarest flowers for her adornment .
And all the time he was thinking to himself that never , during the hundreds of years he had lived , had he seen so charming a maiden .
But the princess felt no such happiness ; in spite of all the magic delights around her she was sad , though she tried to seem content for fear of displeasing the gnome .
However , he soon perceived her melancholy , and in a thousand ways strove to dispel the cloud , but in vain .
At last he said to himself : ` Men are sociable creatures , like bees or ants .
Doubtless this lovely mortal is pining for company .
Who is there I can find for her to talk to ? '
Thereupon he hastened into the nearest filed and dug up a dozen or so of different roots -- carrots , turnips , and radishes -- and laying them carefully in an elegant basket brought them to the princess , who sat pensive in the shade of the rose-bower .
` Loveliest daughter of earth , ' said the gnome , ` banish all sorrow ; no more shall you be lonely in my dwelling .
In this basket is all you need to make this spot delightful to you .
Take this little many-coloured wand , and with a touch give to each root the form you desire to see . '
With this he left her , and the princess , without an instant 's delay , opened the basket , and touching a turnip , cried eagerly : ` Brunhilda , my dear Brunhilda !
come to me quickly ! '
And sure enough there was Brunhilda , joyfully hugging and kissing her beloved princess , and chattering as gaily as in the old days .
This sudden appearance was so delightful that the princess could hardly believe her own eyes , and was quite beside herself with the joy of having her dear playfellow with her once more .
Hand in hand they wandered about the enchanted garden , and gathered the golden apples from the trees , and when they were tired of this amusement the princess led her friend through all the wonderful rooms of the palace , until at last they came to the one in which were kept all the marvellous dresses and ornaments the gnome had given to his hoped-for bride .
There they found so much to amuse them that the hours passed like minutes .
Veils , girdles , and necklaces were tried on and admired , the imitation Brunhilda knew so well how to behave herself , and showed so much taste that nobody would ever have suspected that she was nothing but a turnip after all .
The gnome , who had secretly been keeping an eye upon them , was very pleased with himself for having so well understood the heart of a woman ; and the princess seemed to him even more charming than before .
She did not forget to touch the rest of the roots with her magic wand , and soon had all her maidens about her , and even , as she had two tiny radishes to spare , her favourite cat , and her little dog whose name was Beni .
And now all went cheerfully in the castle .
The princess gave to each of the maidens her task , and never was mistress better served .
For a whole week she enjoyed the delight of her pleasant company undisturbed .
They all sang , they danced , they played from morning to night ; only the princess noticed that day by day the fresh young faces of her maidens grew pale and wan , and the mirror in the great marble hall showed her that she alone still kept her rosy bloom , while Brunhilda and the rest faded visibly .
They assured her that all was well with them ; but , nevertheless , they continued to waste away , and day by day it became harder to them to take part in the games of the princess , till at last , one fine morning , when the princess started from bed and hastened out to join her gay playfellows , she shuddered and started back at the sight of a group of shrivelled crones , with bent backs and trembling limbs , who supported their tottering steps with staves and crutches , and coughed dismally .
A little nearer to the hearth lay the once frolicsome Beni , with all four feet stretched stiffly out , while the sleek cat seemed too weak to raise his head from his velvet cushion .
The horrified princess fled to the door to escape from the sight of this mournful company , and called loudly for the gnome , who appeared at once , humbly anxious to do her bidding .
` Malicious Sprite , ' she cried , ` why do you begrudge me my playmates -- the greatest delight of my lonely hours ?
Is n't this solitary life in such a desert bad enough without your turning the castle into a hospital for the aged ?
Give my maidens back their youth and health this very minute , or I will never love you ! '
` Sweetest and fairest of damsels , ' cried the gnome , ` do not be angry ; everything that is in my power I will do -- but do not ask the impossible .
So long as the sap was fresh in the roots the magic staff could keep them in the forms you desired , but as the sap dried up they withered away .
But never trouble yourself about that , dearest one , a basket of fresh turnips will soon set matters right , and you can speedily call up again every form you wish to see .
The great green patch in the garden will prove you with a more lively company . '
So saying the gnome took himself off .
And the princess with her magic wand touched the wrinkled old women , and left them the withered roots they really were , to be thrown upon the rubbish heap ; and with light feet skipped off across to the meadow to take possession of the freshly filled basket .
But to her surprise she could not find it anywhere .
Up and down the garden she searched , spying into every corner , but not a sign of it was to be found .
By the trellis of grape vines she met the gnome , who was so much embarrassed at the sight of her that she became aware of his confusion while he was still quite a long way off .
` You are trying to tease me , ' she cried , as soon as she saw him .
` Where have you hidden the basket ?
I have been looking for it at least an hour . '
` Dear queen of my heart , ' answered he , ' I pray you to forgive my carelessness .
I promised more than I could perform .
I have sought all over the land for the roots you desire ; but they are gathered in , and lie drying in musty cellars , and the fields are bare and desolate , for below in the valley winter reigns , only here in your presence spring is held fast , and wherever your foot is set the gay flowers bloom .
Have patience for a little , and then without fail you shall have your puppets to play with . '
Almost before the gnome had finished , the disappointed princess turned away , and marched off to her own apartments , without deigning to answer him .
The gnome , however , set off above ground as speedily as possible , and disguising himself as a farmer , bought an ass in the nearest market-town , and brought it back loaded with sacks of turnip , carrot , and radish seed .
With this he sowed a great field , and sent a vast army of his goblins to watch and tend it , and to bring up the fiery rivers from the heart of the earth near enough to warm and encourage the sprouting seeds .
Thus fostered they grew and flourished marvellously , and promised a goodly crop .
The princess wandered about the field day by day , no other plants or fruits in all her wonderful garden pleased her as much as these roots ; but still her eyes were full of discontent .
And , best of all , she loved to while away the hours in a shady fir-wood , seated upon the bank of a little stream , into which she would cast the flowers she had gathered and watch them float away .
The gnome tried hard by every means in his power to please the princess and win her love , but little did he guess the real reason of his lack of success .
He imagined that she was too young and inexperienced to care for him ; but that was a mistake , for the truth was that another image already filled her heart .
The young Prince Ratibor , whose lands joined her father 's , had won the heart of the princess ; and the lovers had been looking forward to the coming of their wedding-day when the bride 's mysterious disappearance took place .
The sad news drove Ratibor distracted , and as the days went on , and nothing could be heard of the princess , he forsook his castle and the society of men , and spent his days in the wild forests , roaming about and crying her name aloud to the trees and rocks .
Meanwhile , the maiden , in her gorgeous prison , sighed in secret over her grief , not wishing to arouse the gnome 's suspicions .
In her own mind she was wondering if by any means she might escape from her captivity , and at last she hit upon a plan .
By this time spring once more reigned in the valley , and the gnome sent the fires back to their places in the deeps of the earth , for the roots which they had kept warm through all the cruel winter hand now come to their full size .
Day by day the princess pulled up some of them , and made experiments with them , conjuring up now this longed-for person , and now that , just for the pleasure of seeing them as they appeared ; but she really had another purpose in view .
One day she changed a tiny turnip into a bee , and sent him off to bring her some news of her lover .
` Fly , dear little bee , towards the east , ' said she , ` to my beloved Ratibor , and softly hum into his ear that I love him only , but that I am a captive in the gnome 's palace under the mountains .
Do not forget a single word of my greeting , and bring me back a message from my beloved . '
So the bee spread his shining wings and flew away to do as he was bidden ; but before he was out of sight a greedy swallow made a snatch at him , and to the great grief of the princess her messenger was eaten up then and there .
After that , by the power of the wonderful wand she summoned a cricket , and taught him this greeting : ` Hop , little cricket , to Ratibor , and chirp in his ear that I love him only , but that I am held captive by the gnome in his palace under the mountains . '
So the cricket hopped off gaily , determined to do his best to deliver his message ; but , alas !
a long-legged stork who was prancing along the same road caught him in her cruel beak , and before he could say a word he had disappeared down her throat .
These two unlucky ventures did not prevent the princess from trying once more .
This time she changed the turnip into a magpie .
` Flutter from tree to tree , chattering bird , ' said she , 'till you come to Ratibor , my love .
Tell him that I am a captive , and bid him come with horses and men , the third day from this , to the hill that rises from the Thorny Valley . '
The magpie listened , hopped awhile from branch to branch , and then darted away , the princess watching him anxiously as far as she could see .
Now Prince Ratibor was still spending his life in wandering about the woods , and not even the beauty of the spring could soothe his grief .
One day , as he sat in the shade of an oak tree , dreaming of his lost princess , and sometimes crying her name aloud , he seemed to hear another voice reply to his , and , starting up , he gazed around him , but he could see no one , and he had just made up his mind that he must be mistaken , when the same voice called again , and , looking up sharply , he saw a magpie which hopped to and fro among the twigs .
Then Ratibor heard with surprise that the bird was indeed calling him by name .
` Poor chatterpie , ' said he ; ` who taught you to say that name , which belongs to an unlucky mortal who wishes the earth would open and swallow up him and his memory for ever ? '
Thereupon he caught up a great stone , and would have hurled it at the magpie , if it had not at that moment uttered the name of the princess .
This was so unexpected that the prince 's arm fell helplessly to his side at the sound , and he stood motionless .
But the magpie in the tree , who , like all the rest of his family , was not happy unless he could be for ever chattering , began to repeat the message the princess had taught him ; and as soon as he understood it , Prince Ratibor 's heart was filed with joy .
All his gloom and misery vanished in a moment , and he anxiously questioned the welcome messenger as to the fate of the princess .
But the magpie knew no more than the lesson he had learnt , so he soon fluttered away ; while the prince hurried back to his castle to gather together a troop of horsemen , full of courage for whatever might befall .
The princess meanwhile was craftily pursuing her plan of escape .
She left off treating the gnome with coldness and indifference ; indeed , there was a look in her eyes which encouraged him to hope that she might some day return his love , and the idea pleased him mightily .
The next day , as soon as the sun rose , she made her appearance decked as a bride , in the wonderful robes and jewels which the fond gnome had prepared for her .
Her golden hair was braided and crowned with myrtle blossoms , and her flowing veil sparkled with gems .
In these magnificent garments she went to meet the gnome upon the great terrace .
` Loveliest of maidens , ' he stammered , bowing low before her , ` let me gaze into your dear eyes , and read in them that you will no longer refuse my love , but will make me the happiest being the sun shines upon . '
So saying he would have drawn aside her veil ; but the princess only held it more closely about her .
` Your constancy has overcome me , ' she said ; ' I can no longer oppose your wishes .
But believe my words , and suffer this veil still to hide my blushes and tears . '
` Why tears , beloved one ? '
cried the gnome anxiously ; ` every tear of yours falls upon my heart like a drop of molten gold .
Greatly as I desire your love , I do not ask a sacrifice . '
` Ah ! '
cried the false princess , ` why do you misunderstand my tears ?
My heart answers to your tenderness , and yet I am fearful .
A wife can not always charm , and though YOU will never alter , the beauty of mortals is as a flower that fades .
How can I be sure that you will always be as loving and charming as you are now ? '
` Ask some proof , sweetheart , ' said he .
` Put my obedience and my patience to some test by which you can judge of my unalterable love . '
` Be it so , ' answered the crafty maiden .
` Then give me just one proof of your goodness .
Go !
count the turnips in yonder meadow .
My wedding feast must not lack guests .
They shall provide me with bride-maidens too .
But beware lest you deceive me , and do not miss a single one .
That shall be the test of your truth towards me . '
Unwilling as the gnome was to lose sight of his beautiful bride for a moment , he obeyed her commands without delay , and hurried off to begin his task .
He skipped along among the turnips as nimble as a grasshopper , and had soon counted them all ; but , to be quite certain that he had made no mistake , he thought he would just run over them again .
This time , to his great annoyance , the number was different ; so he reckoned them for the third time , but now the number was not the same as either of the previous ones !
And this was hardly to be wondered at , as his mind was full of the princess 's pretty looks and words .
As for the maiden , no sooner was her deluded lover fairly out of sight than she began to prepare for flight .
She had a fine fresh turnip hidden close at hand , which she changed into a spirited horse , all saddled and bridled , and , springing upon its back , she galloped away over hill and dale till she reached the Thorny Valley , and flung herself into the arms of her beloved Prince Ratibor .
Meanwhile the toiling gnome went through his task over and over again till his back ached and his head swam , and he could no longer put two and two together ; but as he felt tolerably certain of the exact number of turnips in the field , big and little together , he hurried back eager to prove to his beloved one what a delightful and submissive husband he would be .
He felt very well satisfied with himself as he crossed the mossy lawn to the place where he had left her ; but , alas !
she was no longer there .
He searched every thicket and path , he looked behind every tree , and gazed into every pond , but without success ; then he hastened into the palace and rushed from room to room , peering into every hole and corner and calling her by name ; but only echo answered in the marble halls -- there was neither voice nor footstep .
Then he began to perceive that something was amiss , and , throwing off the mortal form that encumbered him , he flew out of the palace , and soared high into the air , and saw the fugitive princess in the far distance just as the swift horse carried her across the boundary of his dominions .
Furiously did the enraged gnome fling two great clouds together , and hurl a thunderbolt after the flying maiden , splintering the rocky barriers which had stood a thousand years .
But his fury was vain , the thunderclouds melted away into a soft mist , and the gnome , after flying about for a while in despair , bewailing to the four winds his unhappy fate , went sorrowfully back to the palace , and stole once more through every room , with many sighs and lamentations .
He passed through the gardens which for him had lost their charm , and the sight of the princess 's footprints on the golden sand of the pathway renewed his grief .
All was lonely , empty , sorrowful ; and the forsaken gnome resolved that he would have no more dealings with such false creatures as he had found men to be .
Thereupon he stamped three times upon the earth , and the magic palace , with all its treasures , vanished away into the nothingness out of which he had called it ; and the gnome fled once more to the depths of his underground kingdom .
While all this was happening , Prince Ratibor was hurrying away with his prize to a place of safety .
With great pomp and triumph he restored the lovely princess to her father , and was then and there married to her , and took her back with him to his own castle .
But long after she was dead , and her children too , the villagers would tell the tale of her imprisonment underground , as they sat carving wood in the winter nights .
-LSB- Volksmahrchen der Deutschen . -RSB-
Story Of The King Who Would Be Stronger Than Fate Once upon a time , far away in the east country , there lived a king who loved hunting so much that , when once there was a deer in sight , he was careless of his own safety .
Indeed , he often became quite separated from his nobles and attendants , and in fact was particularly fond of lonely adventures .
Another of his favourite amusements was to give out that he was not well , and could not be seen ; and then , with the knowledge only of his faithful Grand Wazeer , to disguise himself as a pedlar , load a donkey with cheap wares , and travel about .
In this way he found out what the common people said about him , and how his judges and governors fulfilled their duties .
One day his queen presented him with a baby daughter as beautiful as the dawn , and the king himself was so happy and delighted that , for a whole week , he forgot to hunt , and spent the time in public and private rejoicing .
Not long afterwards , however , he went out after some deer which were to be found in a far corner of his forests .
In the course of the beat his dogs disturbed a beautiful snow-white stag , and directly he saw it the king determined that he would have it at any cost .
So he put the spurs to his horse , and followed it as hard as he could gallop .
Of course all his attendants followed at the best speed that they could manage ; but the king was so splendidly mounted , and the stag was so swift , that , at the end of an hour , the king found that only his favourite hound and himself were in the chase ; all the rest were far , far behind and out of sight .
Nothing daunted , however , he went on and on , till he perceived that he was entering a valley with great rocky mountains on all sides , and that his horse was getting very tired and trembled at every stride .
Worse than all evening was already drawing on , and the sun would soon set .
In vain had he sent arrow after arrow at the beautiful stag .
Every shot fell short , or went wide of the mark ; and at last , just as darkness was setting in , he lost sight altogether of the beast .
By this time his horse could hardly move from fatigue , his hound staggered panting along beside him , he was far away amongst mountains where he had never been before , and had quite missed his way , and not a human creature or dwelling was in sight .
All this was very discouraging , but the king would not have minded if he had not lost that beautiful stag .
That troubled him a good deal , but he never worried over what he could not help , so he got down from his horse , slipped his arm through the bridle , and led the animal along the rough path in hopes of discovering some shepherd 's hut , or , at least , a cave or shelter under some rock , where he might pass the night .
Presently he heard the sound of rushing water , and made towards it .
He toiled over a steep rocky shoulder of a hill , and there , just below him , was a stream dashing down a precipitous glen , and , almost beneath his feet , twinkling and flickering from the level of the torrent , was a dim light as of a lamp .
Towards this light the king with his horse and hound made his way , sliding and stumbling down a steep , stony path .
At the bottom the king found a narrow grassy ledge by the brink of the stream , across which the light from a rude lantern in the mount of a cave shed a broad beam of uncertain light .
At the edge of the stream sat an old hermit with a long white beard , who neither spoke nor moved as the king approached , but sat throwing into the stream dry leaves which lay scattered about the ground near him .
` Peace be upon you , ' said the king , giving the usual country salutation .
` And upon you peace , ' answered the hermit ; but still he never looked up , nor stopped what he was doing .
For a minute or two the king stood watching him .
He noticed that the hermit threw two leaves in at a time , and watched them attentively .
Sometimes both were carried rapidly down by the stream ; sometimes only one leaf was carried off , and the other , after whirling slowly round and round on the edge of the current , would come circling back on an eddy to the hermit 's feet .
At other times both leaves were held in the backward eddy , and failed to reach the main current of the noisy stream .
` What are you doing ? '
asked the king at last , and the hermit replied that he was reading the fates of men ; every one 's fate , he said , was settled from the beginning , and , whatever it were , there was no escape from it .
The king laughed . '
I care little , ' he said , ` what my fate may be ; but I should be curious to know the fate of my little daughter . ' '
I can not say , ' answered the hermit .
` Do you not know , then ? '
demanded the king . '
I might know , ' returned the hermit , ` but it is not always wisdom to know much . '
But the king was not content with this reply , and began to press the old man to say what he knew , which for a long time he would not do .
At last , however , the king urged him so greatly that he said : ` The king 's daughter will marry the son of a poor slave-girl called Puruna , who belongs to the king of the land of the north .
There is no escaping from Fate . '
The king was wild with anger at hearing these words , but he was also very tired ; so he only laughed , and answered that he hoped there would be a way out of THAT fate anyhow .
Then he asked if the hermit could shelter him and his beasts for the night , and the hermit said ` Yes ' ; so , very soon the king had watered and tethered his horse , and , after a supper of bread and parched peas , lay down in the cave , with the hound at his feet , and tried to go to sleep .
But instead of sleeping he only lay awake and thought of the hermit 's prophecy ; and the more he thought of it the angrier he felt , until he gnashed his teeth and declared that it should never , never come true .
Morning came , and the king got up , pale and sulky , and , after learning from the hermit which path to take , was soon mounted and found his way home without much difficulty .
Directly he reached his palace he wrote a letter to the king of the land of the north , begging him , as a favour , to sell him his slave girl Puruna and her son , and saying that , if he consented , he would send a messenger to receive them at the river which divided the kingdoms .
For five days he awaited the reply , and hardly slept or ate , but was as cross as could be all the time .
On the fifth day his messenger returned with a letter to say that the king of the land of the north would not sell , but he would give , the king the slave girl and her son .
The king was overjoyed .
He sent for his Grand Wazeer and told him that he was going on one of his lonely expeditions , and that the Wazeer must invent some excuse to account for his absence .
Next he disguised himself as an ordinary messenger , mounted a swift camel , and sped away to the place where the slave girl was to be handed over to him .
When he got there he gave the messengers who brought her a letter of thanks and a handsome present for their master and rewards for themselves ; and then without delay he took the poor woman and her tiny baby-boy up on to his camel and rode off to a wild desert .
After riding for a day and a night , almost without stopping , he came to a great cave where he made the woman dismount , and , taking her and the baby into the cave , he drew his sword and with one blow chopped her head off .
But although his anger made him cruel enough for anything so dreadful , the king felt that he could not turn his great sword on the helpless baby , who he was sure must soon die in this solitary place without its mother ; so he left it in the cave where it was , and , mounting his camel , rode home as fast as he could .
Now , in a small village in his kingdom there lived an old widow who had no children or relations of any kind .
She made her living mostly by selling the milk of a flock of goats ; but she was very , very poor , and not very strong , and often used to wonder how she would live if she got too weak or ill to attend to her goats .
Every morning she drove the goats out into the desert to graze on the shrubs and bushes which grew there , and every evening they came home of themselves to be milked and to be shut up safely for the night .
One evening the old woman was astonished to find that her very best nanny-goat returned without a drop of milk .
She thought that some naughty boy or girl was playing a trick upon her and had caught the goat on its way home and stolen all the milk .
But when evening after evening the goat remained almost dry she determined to find out who the thief was .
So the next day she followed the goats at a distance and watched them while they grazed .
At length , in the afternoon , the old woman noticed this particular nanny-goat stealing off by herself away from the herd and she at once went after her .
On and on the goat walked for some way , and then disappeared into a cave in the rocks .
The old woman followed the goat into the cave and then , what should she see but the animal giving her milk to a little boy-baby , whilst on the ground near by lay the sad remains of the baby 's dead mother !
Wondering and frightened , the old woman thought at last that this little baby might be a son to her in her old age , and that he would grow up and in time to come be her comfort and support .
So she carried home the baby to her hut , and next day she took a spade to the cave and dug a grave where she buried the poor mother .
Years passed by , and the baby grew up into a find handsome lad , as daring as he was beautiful , and as industrious as he was brave .
One day , when the boy , whom the old woman had named Nur Mahomed , was about seventeen years old , he was coming from his day 's work in the fields , when he saw a strange donkey eating the cabbages in the garden which surround their little cottage .
Seizing a big stick , he began to beat the intruder and to drive him out of his garden .
A neighbour passing by called out to him -- ` Hi !
I say !
why are you beating the pedlar 's donkey like that ? '
` The pedlar should keep him from eating my cabbages , ' said Nur Mahomed ; ` if he comes this evening here again I 'll cut off his tail for him ! '
Whereupon he went off indoors , whistling cheerfully .
It happened that this neighbour was one of those people who make mischief by talking too much ; so , meeting the pedlar in the ` serai , ' or inn , that evening , he told him what had occurred , and added : ` Yes ; and the young spitfire said that if beating the donkey would not do , he would beat you also , and cut your nose off for a thief ! '
A few days later , the pedlar having moved on , two men appeared in the village inquiring who it was who had threatened to ill-treat and to murder an innocent pedlar .
They declared that the pedlar , in fear of his life , had complained to the king ; and that they had been sent to bring the lawless person who had said these things before the king himself .
Of course they soon found out about the donkey eating Nur Mahomed 's cabbages , and about the young man 's hot words ; but although the lad assured them that he had never said anything about murdering anyone , they replied they were ordered to arrest him , and bring him to take his trial before the king .
So , in spite of his protests , and the wails of his mother , he was carried off , and in due time brought before the king .
Of course Nur Mahomed never guessed that the supposed pedlar happened to have been the king himself , although nobody knew it .
But as he was very angry at what he had been told , he declared that he was going to make an example of this young man , and intended to teach him that even poor travelling pedlars could get justice in HIS country , and be protected from such lawlessness .
However , just as he was going to pronounce some very heavy sentence , there was a stir in the court , and up came Nur Mahomed 's old mother , weeping and lamenting , and begging to be heard .
The king ordered her to speak , and she began to plead for the boy , declaring how good he was , and how he was the support of her old age , and if he were put in prison she would die .
The king asked her who she was .
She replied that she was his mother .
` His mother ? '
said the king ; ` you are too old , surely , to have so young a son ! '
Then the old woman , in her fright and distress , confessed the whole story of how she found the baby , and how she rescued and brought him up , and ended by beseeching the king for mercy .
It is easy to guess how , as the story came out , the king looked blacker and blacker , and more and more grim , until at last he was half fainting with rage and astonishment .
This , then , was the baby he had left to die , after cruelly murdering his mother !
Surely fate might have spared him this !
He wished he had sufficient excuse to put the boy to death , for the old hermit 's prophecy came back to him as strongly as ever ; and yet the young man had done nothing bad enough to deserve such a punishment .
Everyone would call him a tyrant if he were to give such an order -- in fact , he dared not try it !
At length he collected himself enough to say : -- ` If this young man will enlist in my army I will let him off .
We have need of such as him , and a little discipline will do him good . '
Still the old woman pleaded that she could not live without her son , and was nearly as terrified at the idea of his becoming a soldier as she was at the thought of his being put in prison .
But at length the king -- determined to get the youth into his clutches -- pacified her by promising her a pension large enough to keep her in comfort ; and Nur Mahomed , to his own great delight , was duly enrolled in the king 's army .
As a soldier Nur Mahomed seemed to be in luck .
He was rather surprised , but much pleased , to find that he was always one of those chosen when any difficult or dangerous enterprise was afoot ; and , although he had the narrowest escapes on some occasions , still , the very desperateness of the situations in which he found himself gave him special chances of displaying his courage .
And as he was also modest and generous , he became a favourite with his officers and his comrades .
Thus it was not very surprising that , before very long , he became enrolled amongst the picked men of the king 's bodyguard .
The fact is , that the king had hoped to have got him killed in some fight or another ; but , seeing that , on the contrary , he throve on hard knocks , he was now determined to try more direct and desperate methods .
One day , soon after Nur Mahomed had entered the bodyguard , he was selected to be one of the soldiers told off to escort the king through the city .
The procession was marching on quite smoothly , when a man , armed with a dagger , rushed out of an alley straight towards the king .
Nur Mahomed , who was the nearest of the guards , threw himself in the way , and received the stab that had been apparently intended for the king .
Luckily the blow was a hurried one , and the dagger glanced on is breastbone , so that , although he received a severe wound , his youth and strength quickly got the better of it .
The king was , of course , obliged to take some notice of this brave deed , and as a reward made him one of his own attendants .
After this the strange adventures the young man passed through were endless .
Officers of the bodyguard were often sent on all sorts of secret and difficult errands , and such errands had a curious way of becoming necessary when Nur Mahomed was on duty .
Once , while he was taking a journey , a foot-bridge gave way under him ; once he was attacked by armed robbers ; a rock rolled down upon him in a mountain pass ; a heavy stone coping fell from a roof at his feet in a narrow city alley .
Altogether , Nur Mahomed began to think that , somewhere or other , he had made an enemy ; but he was light-hearted , and the thought did not much trouble him .
He escaped somehow every time , and felt amused rather than anxious about the next adventure .
It was the custom of that city that the officer for the day of the palace guards should receive all his food direct from the king 's kitchen .
One day , when Nur Mahomed 's turn came to be on duty , he was just sitting down to a delicious stew that had been sent in from the palace , when one of those gaunt , hungry dogs , which , in eastern countries , run about the streets , poked his nose in at the open guard-room door , and looked at Nur Mahomed with mouth watering and nostrils working .
The kind-hearted young man picked out a lump of meat , went to the door , and threw it outside to him .
The dog pounced upon it , and gulped it down greedily , and was just turning to go , when it staggered , fell , rolled over , and died .
Nur Mahomed , who had been lazily watching him , stood still for a moment , then he came back whistling softly .
He gathered up the rest of his dinner and carefully wrapped it up to carry away and bury somewhere ; and then he sent back the empty plates .
How furious the king was when , at the next morning 's durbar , Nur Mahomed appeared before him fresh , alert and smiling as usual .
He was determined , however , to try once more , and bidding the young man come into his presence that evening , gave orders that he was to carry a secret despatch to the governor of a distant province .
` Make your preparations at once , ' added he , ` and be ready to start in the morning .
I myself will deliver you the papers at the last moment . '
Now this province was four or five days ' journey from the palace , and the governor of it was the most faithful servant the king had .
He could be silent as the grave , and prided himself on his obedience .
Whilst he was an old and tried servant of the king 's , his wife had been almost a mother to the young princess ever since the queen had died some years before .
It happened that , a little before this time , the princess had been sent away for her health to another remote province ; and whilst she was there her old friend , the governor 's wife , had begged her to come and stay with them as soon as she could .
The princess accepted gladly , and was actually staying in the governor 's house at the very time when the king made up his mind to send Nur Mahomed there with the mysterious despatch .
According to orders Nur Mahomed presented himself early the next morning at the king 's private apartments .
His best horse was saddled , food placed in is saddle-bag , and with some money tied up in his waist-band , he was ready to start .
The king handed over to him a sealed packet , desiring him to give it himself only into the hands of the governor , and to no one else .
Nur Mahomed hid it carefully in his turban , swung himself into the saddle , and five minutes later rode out of the city gates , and set out on his long journey .
The weather was very hot ; but Nur Mahomed thought that the sooner his precious letter was delivered the better ; so that , by dint of riding most of each night and resting only in the hottest part of the day , he found himself , by noon on the third day , approaching the town which was his final destination .
Not a soul was to be seen anywhere ; and Nur Mahomed , stiff , dry , thirsty , and tired , looked longingly over the wall into the gardens , and marked the fountains , the green grass , the shady apricot orchards , and giant mulberry trees , and wished he were there .
At length he reached the castle gates , and was at once admitted , as he was in the uniform of the king 's bodyguard .
The governor was resting , the soldier said , and could not see him until the evening .
So Nur Mahomed handed over his horse to an attendant , and wandered down into the lovely gardens he had seen from the road , and sat down in the shade to rest himself .
He flung himself on his back and watched the birds twittering and chattering in the trees above him .
Through the branches he could see great patches of sky where the kites wheeled and circled incessantly , with shrill whistling cried .
Bees buzzed over the flowers with a soothing sound , and in a few minutes Nur Mahomed was fast asleep .
Every day , through the heat of the afternoon , the governor , and his wife also , used to lie down for two or three hours in their own rooms , and so , for the matter of that , did most people in the palace .
But the princess , like many other girls , was restless , and preferred to wander about the garden , rather than rest on a pile of soft cushions .
What a torment her stout old attendants and servants sometime thought her when she insisted on staying awake , and making them chatter or do something , when they could hardly keep their eyes open !
Sometimes , however , the princess would pretend to go to sleep , and then , after all her women had gladly followed her example , she would get up and go out by herself , her veil hanging loosely about her .
If she was discovered her old hostess scolded her severely ; but the princess only laughed , and did the same thing next time .
This very afternoon the princess had left all her women asleep , and , after trying in vain to amuse herself indoors , she had slipped out into the great garden , and rambled about in all her favourite nooks and corners , feeling quite safe as there was not a creature to be seen .
Suddenly , on turning a corner , she stopped in surprise , for before her lay a man fast asleep !
In her hurry she had almost tripped over him .
But there he was , a young man , tanned and dusty with travel , in the uniform of an officer of the king 's guard .
One of the few faults of this lovely princess was a devouring curiosity , and she lived such an idle life that she had plenty of time to be curious .
Out of one of the folds of this young man 's turban there peeped the corner of a letter !
She wondered what the letter was -- whom it was for !
She drew her veil a little closer , and stole across on tip-toe and caught hold of the corner of the letter .
Then she pulled it a little , and just a little more !
A great big seal came into view , which she saw to be her father 's , and at the sight of it she paused for a minute half ashamed of what she was doing .
But the pleasure of taking a letter which was not meant for her was more than she could resist , and in another moment it was in her hand .
All at once she remembered that it would be death to this poor officer if he lost the letter , and that at all hazards she must put it back again .
But this was not so easy ; and , moreover , the letter in her hand burnt her with longing to read it , and see what was inside .
She examined the seal .
It was sticky with being exposed to the hot sun , and with a very little effort it parted from the paper .
The letter was open and she read it !
And this was what was written : ` Behead the messenger who brings this letter secretly and at once .
Ask no questions . '
The girl grew pale .
What a shame !
she thought .
SHE would not let a handsome young fellow like that be beheaded ; but how to prevent it was not quite clear at the moment .
Some plan must be invented , and she wished to lock herself in where no one could interrupt her , as might easily happen in the garden .
So she crept softly to her room , and took a piece of paper and wrote upon it : ` Marry the messenger who brings this letter to the princess openly at once .
Ask no questions . '
And even contrived to work the seals off the original letter and to fix them to this , so that no one could tell , unless they examined it closely , that it had ever been opened .
Then she slipped back , shaking with fear and excitement , to where the young officer still lay asleep , thrust the letter into the fold so his turban , and hurried back to her room .
It was done !
Late in the afternoon Nur Mahomed woke , and , making sure that the precious despatch was still safe , went off to get ready for his audience with the governor .
As soon as he was ushered into his presence he took the letter from his turban and placed it in the governor 's hands according to orders .
When he had read it the governor was certainly a little astonished ; but he was told in the letter to ` ask no questions , ' and he knew how to obey orders .
He sent for his wife and told her to get the princess ready to be married at once .
` Nonsense ! '
said his wife , ` what in the world do you mean ? '
` These are the king 's commands , ' he answered ; ` go and do as I bid you .
The letter says `` at once , '' and `` ask no questions . ''
The marriage , therefore , must take place this evening . '
In vain did his wife urge every objection ; the more she argued , the more determined was her husband . '
I know how to obey orders , ' he said , ` and these are as plain as the nose on my face ! '
So the princess was summoned , and , somewhat to their surprise , she seemed to take the news very calmly ; next Nur Mahomed was informed , and he was greatly startled , but of course he could but be delighted at the great and unexpected honour which he thought the king had done him .
Then all the castle was turned upside down ; and when the news spread in the town , THAT was turned upside down too .
Everybody ran everywhere , and tried to do everything at once ; and , in the middle of it all , the old governor went about with his hair standing on end , muttering something about ` obeying orders . '
And so the marriage was celebrated , and there was a great feast in the castle , and another in the soldiers ' barracks , and illuminations all over the town and in the beautiful gardens .
And all the people declared that such a wonderful sight had never been seen , and talked about it to the ends of their lives .
The next day the governor despatched the princess and her bridegroom to the king , with a troop of horsemen , splendidly dressed , and he sent a mounted messenger on before them , with a letter giving the account of the marriage to the king .
When the king got the governor 's letter , he grew so red in the face that everyone thought he was going to have apoplexy .
They were all very anxious to know what had happened , but he rushed off and locked himself into a room , where he ramped and raved until he was tired .
Then , after awhile , he began to think he had better make the best of it , especially as the old governor had been clever enough to send him back his letter , and the king was pretty sure that this was in the princess 's handwriting .
He was fond of his daughter , and though she had behaved badly , he did not wish to cut HER head off , and he did not want people to know the truth because it would make him look foolish .
In fact , the more he considered the matter , the more he felt that he would be wise to put a good face on it , and to let people suppose that he had really brought about the marriage of his own free will .
So , when the young couple arrived , the king received them with all state , and gave his son-in-law a province to govern .
Nur Mahomed soon proved himself as able and honourable a governor as he was a brave soldier ; and , when the old king died , he became king in his place , and reigned long and happily .
Nur Mahomed 's old mother lived for a long time in her ` son 's ' palace , and died in peace .
The princess , his wife , although she had got her husband by a trick , found that she could not trick HIM , and so she never tried , but busied herself in teaching her children and scolding her maids .
As for the old hermit , no trace of him was ever discovered ; but the cave is there , and the leaves lie thick in front of it unto this day .
-LSB- Told the writer by an Indian . -RSB-
Story of Wali Dad the Simple-Hearted Once upon a time there lived a poor old man whose name was Wali Dad Gunjay , or Wali Dad the Bald .
He had no relations , but lived all by himself in a little mud hut some distance from any town , and made his living by cutting grass in the jungle , and selling it as fodder for horses .
He only earned by this five halfpence a day ; but he was a simple old man , and needed so little out of it , that he saved up one halfpenny daily , and spent the rest upon such food and clothing as he required .
In this way he lived for many years until , one night , he thought that he would count the money he had hidden away in the great earthen pot under the floor of his hut .
So he set to work , and with much trouble he pulled the bag out on to the floor , and sat gazing in astonishment at the heap of coins which tumbled out of it .
What should he do with them all ?
he wondered .
But he never thought of spending the money on himself , because he was content to pass the rest of his days as he had been doing for ever so long , and he really had no desire for any greater comfort or luxury .
At last he threw all the money into an old sack , which he pushed under his bead , and then , rolled in his ragged old blanket , he went off to sleep .
Early next morning he staggered off with his sack of money to the shop of a jeweller , whom he knew in the town , and bargained with him for a beautiful little gold bracelet .
With this carefully wrapped up in his cotton waistband he went to the house of a rich friend , who was a travelling merchant , and used to wander about with his camels and merchandise through many countries .
Wali Dad was lucky enough to find him at home , so he sat down , and after a little talk he asked the merchant who was the most virtuous and beautiful lady he had ever met with .
The merchant replied that the princess of Khaistan was renowned everywhere as well for the beauty of her person as for the kindness and generosity of her disposition .
` Then , ' said Wali Dad , ` next time you go that way , give her this little bracelet , with the respectful compliments of one who admires virtue far more than he desires wealth . '
With that he pulled the bracelet from his waistband , and handed it to his friend .
The merchant was naturally much astonished , but said nothing , and made no objection to carrying out his friend 's plan .
Time passed by , and at length the merchant arrived in the course of his travels at the capital of Khaistan .
As soon as he had opportunity he presented himself at the palace , and sent in the bracelet , neatly packed in a little perfumed box provided by himself , giving at the same time the message entrusted to him by Wali Dad .
The princess could not think who could have bestowed this present on her , but she bade her servant to tell the merchant that if he would return , after he had finished his business in the city , she would give him her reply .
In a few days , therefore , the merchant came back , and received from the princess a return present in the shape of a camel-load or rich silks , besides a present of money for himself .
With these he set out on his journey .
Some months later he got home again from his journeyings , and proceeded to take Wali Dad the princess 's present .
Great was the perplexity of the good man to find a camel-load of silks tumbled at his door !
What was he to do with these costly things ?
But , presently , after much thought , he begged the merchant to consider whether he did not know of some young prince to whom such treasures might be useful .
` Of course , ' cried the merchant , greatly amused ; ` from Delhi to Baghdad , and from Constantinople to Lucknow , I know them all ; and there lives none worthier than the gallant and wealthy young prince of Nekabad . '
` Very well , then , take the silks to him , with the blessing of an old man , ' said Wali Dad , much relieved to be rid of them .
So , the next time that the merchant journeyed that way he carried the silks with him , and in due course arrived at Nekabad , and sought an audience of the prince .
When he was shown into his presence he produced the beautiful gift of silks that Wali Dad had sent , and begged the young man to accept them as a humble tribute to his worth and greatness .
The prince was much touched by the generosity of the giver , and ordered , as a return present , twelve of the finest breed of horses for which his country was famous to be delivered over to the merchant , to whom also , before he took his leave , he gave a munificent reward for his services .
As before , the merchant at last arrived at home ; and next day , he set out for Wali Dad 's house with the twelve horses .
When the old man saw them coming in the distance he said to himself : ` Here 's luck !
a troop of horses coming !
They are sure to want quantities of grass , and I shall sell all I have without having to drag it to market . '
Thereupon he rushed off and cut grass as fast he could .
When he got back , with as much grass as he could possibly carry , he was greatly discomfited to find that the horses were all for himself .
At first he could not think what to do with them , but , after a little , a brilliant idea struck him !
He gave two to the merchant , and begged him to take the rest to the princess of Khaistan , who was clearly the fittest person to possess such beautiful animals .
The merchant departed , laughing .
But , true to his old friend 's request , he took the horses with him on his next journey , and eventually presented them safely to the princess .
This time the princess sent for the merchant , and questioned him about the giver .
Now , the merchant was usually a most honest man , but he did not quite like to describe Wali Dad in his true light as an old man whose income was five halfpence a day , and who had hardly clothes to cover him .
So he told her that his friend had heard stories of her beauty and goodness , and had longed to lay the best he had at her feet .
The princess then took her father into her confidence , and begged him to advise her what courtesy she might return to one who persisted in making her such presents .
` Well , ' said the king , ` you can not refuse them ; so the best thing you can do is to send this unknown friend at once a present so magnificent that he is not likely to be able to send you anything better , and so will be ashamed to send anything at all ! '
Then he ordered that , in place of each of the ten horses , two mules laden with silver should be returned by her .
Thus , in a few hours , the merchant found himself in charge of a splendid caravan ; and he had to hire a number of armed men to defend it on the road against the robbers , and he was glad indeed to find himself back again in Wali Dad 's hut .
` Well , now , ' cried Wali Dad , as he viewed all the wealth laid at his door , ' I can well repay that kind prince for his magnificent present of horses ; but to be sure you have been put to great expenses !
Still , if you will accept six mules and their loads , and will take the rest straight to Nekabad , I shall thank you heartily . '
The merchant felt handsomely repaid for his trouble , and wondered greatly how the matter would turn out .
So he made no difficulty about it ; and as soon as he could get things ready , he set out for Nekabad with this new and princely gift .
This time the prince , too , was embarrassed , and questioned the merchant closely .
The merchant felt that his credit was at stake , and whilst inwardly determining that he would not carry the joke any further , could not help describing Wali Dad in such glowing terms that the old man would never have known himself had he heard them .
The prince , like the king of Khaistan , determined that he would send in return a gift that would be truly royal , and which would perhaps prevent the unknown giver sending him anything more .
So he made up a caravan on twenty splendid horses caparisoned in gold embroidered cloths , with fine morocco saddles and silver bridles and stirrups , also twenty camels of the best breed , which had the speed of race-horses , and could swing along at a trot all day without getting tired ; and , lastly , twenty elephants , with magnificent silver howdahs and coverings of silk embroidered with pearls .
To take care of these animals the merchant hired a little army of men ; and the troop made a great show as they travelled along .
When Wali Dad from a distance saw the cloud of dust which the caravan made , and the glitter of its appointments , he said to himself : ` By Allah !
here 's a grand crowd coming !
Elephants , too !
Grass will be selling well to-day ! '
And with that he hurried off to the jungle and cut grass as fast as he could .
As soon as he got back he found the caravan had stopped at his door , and the merchant was waiting , a little anxiously , to tell him the news and to congratulate him upon his riches .
` Riches ! '
cried Wali Dad , ` what has an old man like me with one foot in the grave to do with riches ?
That beautiful young princess , now !
She 'd be the one to enjoy all these fine things !
Do you take for yourself two horses , two camels , and two elephants , with all their trappings , and present the rest to her . '
The merchant at first objected to these remarks , and pointed out to Wali Dad that he was beginning to feel these embassies a little awkward .
Of course he was himself richly repaid , so far as expenses went ; but still he did not like going so often , and he was getting nervous .
At length , however he consented to go once more , but he promised himself never to embark on another such enterprise .
So , after a few days ' rest , the caravan started off once more for Khaistan .
The moment the king of Khaistan saw the gorgeous train of men and beasts entering his palace courtyard , he was so amazed that he hurried down in person to inquire about it , and became dumb when he heard that these also were a present from the princely Wali Dad , and were for the princess , his daughter .
He went hastily off to her apartments , and said to her : ' I tell you what it is , my dear , this man wants to marry you ; that is the meaning of all these presents !
There is nothing for it but that we go and pay him a visit in person .
He must be a man of immense wealth , and as he is so devoted to you , perhaps you might do worse than marry him ! '
The princess agreed with all that her father said , and orders were issued for vast numbers of elephants and camels , and gorgeous tents and flags , and litters for the ladies , and horses for the men , to be prepared without delay , as the king and princess were going to pay a visit to the great and munificent prince Wali Dad .
The merchant , the king declared , was to guide the party .
The feelings of the poor merchant in this sore dilemma can hardly be imagined .
Willingly would he have run away ; but he was treated with so much hospitality as Wali Dad 's representative , that he hardly got an instant 's real peace , and never any opportunity of slipping away .
In fact , after a few days , despair possessed him to such a degree that he made up his mind that all that happened was fate , and that escape was impossible ; but he hoped devoutly some turn of fortune would reveal to him a way out of the difficulties which he had , with the best intentions , drawn upon himself .
On the seventh day they all started , amidst thunderous salutes from the ramparts of the city , and much dust , and cheering , and blaring of trumpets .
Day after day they moved on , and every day the poor merchant felt more ill and miserable .
He wondered what kind of death the king would invent for him , and went through almost as much torture , as he lay awake nearly the whole of every night thinking over the situation , as he would have suffered if the king 's executioners were already setting to work upon his neck .
At last they were only one day 's march from Wali Dad 's little mud home .
Here a great encampment was made , and the merchant was sent on to tell Wali Dad that the King and Princess of Khaistan had arrived and were seeking an interview .
When the merchant arrived he found the poor old man eating his evening meal of onions and dry bread , and when he told him of all that had happened he had not the heart to proceed to load him with the reproaches which rose to his tongue .
For Wali Dad was overwhelmed with grief and shame for himself , for his friend , and for the name and honour of the princess ; and he wept and plucked at his beard , and groaned most piteously .
With tears he begged the merchant to detain them for one day by any kind of excuse he could think of , and to come in the morning to discuss what they should do .
As soon as the merchant was gone Wali Dad made up his mind that there was only one honourable way out of the shame and distress that he had created by his foolishness , and that was -- to kill himself .
So , without stopping to ask any one 's advice , he went off in the middle of the night to a place where the river wound along at the base of steep rocky cliffs of great height , and determined to throw himself down and put an end to his life .
When he got to the place he drew back a few paces , took a little run , and at the very edge of that dreadful black gulf he stopped short !
He COULD not do it !
From below , unseen in the blackness of the deep night shadows , the water roared and boiled round the jagged rocks -- he could picture the place as he knew it , only ten times more pitiless and forbidding in the visionless darkness ; the wind soughed through the gorge with fearsome sighs , and rustlings and whisperings , and the bushes and grasses that grew in the ledges of the cliffs seemed to him like living creatures that danced and beckoned , shadowy and indistinct .
An owl laughed ` Hoo !
hoo ! '
almost in his face , as he peered over the edge of the gulf , and the old man threw himself back in a perspiration of horror .
He was afraid !
He drew back shuddering , and covering his face in his hands he wept aloud .
Presently he was aware of a gentle radiance that shed itself before him .
Surely morning was not already coming to hasten and reveal his disgrace !
He took his hands from before his face , and saw before him two lovely beings whom his instinct told him were not mortal , but were Peris from Paradise .
` Why do you weep , old man ? '
said one , in a voice as clear and musical as that of the bulbul . '
I weep for shame , ' replied he .
` What do you here ? '
questioned the other . '
I came here to die , ' said Wali Dad .
And as they questioned him , he confessed all his story .
Then the first stepped forward and laid a hand upon his shoulder , and Wali Dad began to feel that something strange -- what , he did not know -- was happening to him .
His old cotton rags of clothes were changed to beautiful linen and embroidered cloth ; on his hard , bare feet were warm , soft shoes , and on his head a great jewelled turban .
Round his neck there lay a heavy golden chain , and the little old bent sickle , which he cut grass with , and which hung in his waistband , had turned into a gorgeous scimetar , whose ivory hilt gleamed in the pale light like snow in moonlight .
As he stood wondering , like a man in a dream , the other peri waved her hand and bade him turn and see ; and , lo !
before him a noble gateway stood open .
And up an avenue of giant place trees the peris led him , dumb with amazement .
At the end of the avenue , on the very spot where his hut had stood , a gorgeous palace appeared , ablaze with myriads of lights .
Its great porticoes and verandahs were occupied by hurrying servants , and guards paced to and fro and saluted him respectfully as he drew near , along mossy walks and through sweeping grassy lawns where fountains were playing and flowers scented the air .
Wali Dad stood stunned and helpless .
` Fear not , ' said one of the peris ; ` go to your house , and learn that God rewards the simple-hearted . '
With these words they both disappeared and left him .
He walked on , thinking still that he must be dreaming .
Very soon he retired to rest in a splendid room , far grander than anything he had ever dreamed of .
When morning dawned he woke , and found that the palace , and himself , and his servants were all real , and that he was not dreaming after all !
If he was dumbfounded , the merchant , who was ushered into his presence soon after sunrise , was much more so .
He told Wali Dad that he had not slept all night , and by the first streak of daylight had started to seek out his friend .
And what a search he had had !
A great stretch of wild jungle country had , in the night , been changed into parks and gardens ; and if it had not been for some of Wali Dad 's new servants , who found him and brought him to the palace , he would have fled away under the impression that his trouble had sent him crazy , and that all he saw was only imagination .
Then Wali Dad told the merchant all that had happened .
By his advice he sent an invitation to the king and princess of Khaistan to come and be his guests , together with all their retinue and servants , down to the very humblest in the camp .
For three nights and days a great feast was held in honour of the royal guests .
Every evening the king and his nobles were served on golden plates and from golden cups ; and the smaller people on silver plates and from silver cups ; and each evening each guest was requested to keep the places and cups that they had used as a remembrance of the occasion .
Never had anything so splendid been seen .
Besides the great dinners , there were sports and hunting , and dances , and amusements of all sorts .
On the fourth day the king of Khaistan took his host aside , and asked him whether it was true , as he had suspected , that he wished to marry his daughter .
But Wali Dad , after thanking him very much for the compliment , said that he had never dreamed of so great an honour , and that he was far too old and ugly for so fair a lady ; but he begged the king to stay with him until he could send for the Prince of Nekabad , who was a most excellent , brave , and honourable young man , and would surely be delighted to try to win the hand of the beautiful princess .
To this the king agreed , and Wali Dad sent the merchant to Nekabad , with a number of attendants , and with such handsome presents that the prince came at once , fell head over ears in love with the princess , and married her at Wali Dad 's palace amidst a fresh outburst of rejoicings .
And now the King of Khaistan and the Prince and Princess of Nekabad , each went back to their own country ; and Wali Dad lived to a good old age , befriending all who were in trouble and preserving , in his prosperity , the simple-hearted and generous nature that he had when he was only Wali Dad Gunjay , the grass cutter .
-LSB- Told the author by an Indian . -RSB-
Tale of a Tortoise and of a Mischievous Monkey Once upon a time there was a country where the rivers were larger , and the forests deeper , than anywhere else .
Hardly any men came there , and the wild creatures had it all to themselves , and used to play all sorts of strange games with each other .
The great trees , chained one to the other by thick flowering plants with bright scarlet or yellow blossoms , were famous hiding-places for the monkeys , who could wait unseen , till a puma or an elephant passed by , and then jump on their backs and go for a ride , swinging themselves up by the creepers when they had had enough .
Near the rivers huge tortoises were to be found , and though to our eyes a tortoise seems a dull , slow thing , it is wonderful to think how clever they were , and how often they outwitted many of their livelier friends .
There was one tortoise in particular that always managed to get the better of everybody , and many were the tales told in the forest of his great deeds .
They began when he was quite young , and tired of staying at home with his father and mother .
He left them one day , and walked off in search of adventures .
In a wide open space surrounded by trees he met with an elephant , who was having his supper before taking his evening bath in the river which ran close by .
` Let us see which of us two is strongest , ' said the young tortoise , marching up to the elephant .
` Very well , ' replied the elephant , much amused at the impertinence of the little creature ; ` when would you like the trial to be ? '
` In an hour 's time ; I have some business to do first , ' answered the tortoise .
And he hastened away as fast as his short legs would carry him .
In a pool of the river a whale was resting , blowing water into the air and making a lovely fountain .
The tortoise , however , was too young and too busy to admire such things , and he called to the whale to stop , as he wanted to speak to him .
` Would you like to try which of us is the stronger ? '
said he .
The whale looked at him , sent up another fountain , and answered : ` Oh , yes ; certainly .
When do you wish to begin ?
I am quite ready . '
` Then give me one of your longest bones , and I will fasten it to my leg .
When I give the signal , you must pull , and we will see which can pull the hardest . '
` Very good , ' replied the whale ; and he took out one of his bones and passed it to the tortoise .
The tortoise picked up the end of the bone in his mouth and went back to the elephant . '
I will fasten this to your leg , ' said he , ` in the same way as it is fastened to mine , and we must both pull as hard as we can .
We shall soon see which is the stronger . '
So he wound it carefully round the elephant 's leg , and tied it in a firm knot .
` Now ! '
cried he , plunging into a thick bush behind him .
The whale tugged at one end , and the elephant tugged at the other , and neither had any idea that he had not the tortoise for his foe .
When the whale pulled hardest the elephant was dragged into the water ; and when the elephant pulled the hardest the whale was hauled on to the land .
They were very evenly matched , and the battle was a hard one .
At last they were quite tired , and the tortoise , who was watching , saw that they could play no more .
So he crept from his hiding-place , and dipping himself in the river , he went to the elephant and said : ' I see that you really are stronger than I thought .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
Then he dried himself on some moss and went to the whale and said : ' I see that you really are stronger than I thought .
Suppose we give it up for to-day ? '
The two adversaries were only too glad to be allowed to rest , and believed to the end of their days that , after all , the tortoise was stronger than either of them .
A day or two later the young tortoise was taking a stroll , when he met a fox , and stopped to speak to him .
` Let us try , ' said he in a careless manner , ` which of us can lie buried in the ground during seven years . ' '
I shall be delighted , ' answered the fox , ` only I would rather that you began . '
` It is all the same to me , ' replied the tortoise ; ` if you come round this way to-morrow you will see that I have fulfilled my part of the bargain . '
So he looked about for a suitable place , and found a convenient hole at the foot of an orange tree .
He crept into it , and the next morning the fox heaped up the earth round him , and promised to feed him every day with fresh fruit .
The fox so far kept his word that each morning when the sun rose he appeared to ask how the tortoise was getting on .
` Oh , very well ; but I wish you would give me some fruit , ' replied he .
` Alas !
the fruit is not ripe enough yet for you to eat , ' answered the fox , who hoped that the tortoise would die of hunger long before the seven years were over .
` Oh dear , oh dear !
I am so hungry ! '
cried the tortoise . '
I am sure you must be ; but it will be all right to-morrow , ' said the fox , trotting off , not knowing that the oranges dropped down the hollow trunk , straight into the tortoise 's hole , and that he had as many as he could possibly eat .
So the seven years went by ; and when the tortoise came out of his hole he was as fat as ever .
Now it was the fox 's turn , and he chose his hole , and the tortoise heaped the earth round , promising to return every day or two with a nice young bird for his dinner .
` Well , how are you getting on ? '
he would ask cheerfully when he paid his visits .
` Oh , all right ; only I wish you had brought a bird with you , ' answered the fox . '
I have been so unlucky , I have never been able to catch one , ' replied the tortoise .
` However , I shall be more fortunate to-morrow , I am sure . '
But not many to-morrows after , when the tortoise arrived with his usual question : ` Well , how are you getting on ? '
he received no answer , for the fox was lying in his hole quite still , dead of hunger .
By this time the tortoise was grown up , and was looked up to throughout the forest as a person to be feared for his strength and wisdom .
But he was not considered a very swift runner , until an adventure with a deer added to his fame .
One day , when he was basking in the sun , a stag passed by , and stopped for a little conversation .
` Would you care to see which of us can run fastest ? '
asked the tortoise , after some talk .
The stag thought the question so silly that he only shrugged his shoulders .
` Of course , the victor would have the right to kill the other , ' went on the tortoise .
` Oh , on that condition I agree , ' answered the deer ; ` but I am afraid you are a dead man . '
` It is no use trying to frighten me , ' replied the tortoise .
` But I should like three days for training ; then I shall be ready to start when the sun strikes on the big tree at the edge of the great clearing . '
The first thing the tortoise did was to call his brothers and his cousins together , and he posted them carefully under ferns all along the line of the great clearing , making a sort of ladder which stretched for many miles .
This done to his satisfaction , he went back to the starting place .
The stag was quite punctual , and as soon as the sun 's rays struck the trunk of the tree the stag started off , and was soon far out of the sight of the tortoise .
Every now and then he would turn his head as he ran , and call out : ` How are you getting on ? '
and the tortoise who happened to be nearest at that moment would answer : ` All right , I am close up to you . '
Full of astonishment , the stag would redouble his efforts , but it was no use .
Each time he asked : ` Are you there ? '
the answer would come : ` Yes , of course , where else should I be ? '
And the stag ran , and ran , and ran , till he could run no more , and dropped down dead on the grass .
And the tortoise , when he thinks about it , laughs still .
But the tortoise was not the only creature of whose tricks stories were told in the forest .
There was a famous monkey who was just as clever and more mischievous , because he was so much quicker on his feet and with his hands .
It was quite impossible to catch him and give him the thrashing he so often deserved , for he just swung himself up into a tree and laughed at the angry victim who was sitting below .
Sometimes , however , the inhabitants of the forest were so foolish as to provoke him , and then they got the worst of it .
This was what happened to the barber , whom the monkey visited one morning , saying that he wished to be shaved .
The barber bowed politely to his customer , and begging him to be seated , tied a large cloth round his neck , and rubbed his chin with soap ; but instead of cutting off his beard , the barber made a snip at the end of his tail .
It was only a very little bit and the monkey started up more in rage than in pain .
` Give me back the end of my tail , ' he roared , ` or I will take one of your razors . '
The barber refused to give back the missing piece , so the monkey caught up a razor from the table and ran away with it , and no one in the forest could be shaved for days , as there was not another to be got for miles and miles .
As he was making his way to his own particular palm-tree , where the cocoanuts grew , which were so useful for pelting passers-by , he met a woman who was scaling a fish with a bit of wood , for in this side of the forest a few people lived in huts near the river .
` That must be hard work , ' said the monkey , stopping to look ; ` try my knife -- you will get on quicker . '
And he handed her the razor as he spoke .
A few days later he came back and rapped at the door of the hut . '
I have called for my razor , ' he said , when the woman appeared . '
I have lost it , ' answered she .
` If you do n't give it to me at once I will take your sardine , ' replied the monkey , who did not believe her .
The woman protested she had not got the knife , so he took the sardine and ran off .
A little further along he saw a baker who was standing at the door , eating one of his loaves .
` That must be rather dry , ' said the monkey , ` try my fish ' ; and the man did not need twice telling .
A few days later the monkey stopped again at the baker 's hut .
` I 've called for that fish , ' he said .
` That fish ?
But I have eaten it ! '
exclaimed the baker in dismay .
` If you have eaten it I shall take this barrel of meal in exchange , ' replied the monkey ; and he walked off with the barrel under his arm .
As he went he saw a woman with a group of little girls round her , teaching them how to dress hair .
` Here is something to make cakes for the children , ' he said , putting down his barrel , which by this time he found rather heavy .
The children were delighted , and ran directly to find some flat stones to bake their cakes on , and when they had made and eaten them , they thought they had never tasted anything so nice .
Indeed , when they saw the monkey approaching not long after , they rushed to meet him , hoping that he was bringing them some more presents .
But he took no notice of their questions , he only said to their mother : ` I 've called for my barrel of meal . '
` Why , you gave it to me to make cakes of ! '
cried the mother .
` If I ca n't get my barrel of meal , I shall take one of your children , ' answered the monkey . '
I am in want of somebody who can bake my bread when I am tired of fruit , and who knows how to make cocoanut cakes . '
` Oh , leave me my child , and I will find you another barrel of meal , ' wept the mother . '
I do n't WANT another barrel , I want THAT one , ' answered the monkey sternly .
And as the woman stood wringing her hands , he caught up the little girl that he thought the prettiest and took her to his home in the palm tree .
She never went back to the hut , but on the whole she was not much to be pitied , for monkeys are nearly as good as children to play with , and they taught her how to swing , and to climb , and to fly from tree to tree , and everything else they knew , which was a great deal .
Now the monkey 's tiresome tricks had made him many enemies in the forest , but no one hated him so much as the puma .
The cause of their quarrel was known only to themselves , but everybody was aware of the fact , and took care to be out of the way when there was any chance of these two meeting .
Often and often the puma had laid traps for the monkey , which he felt sure his foe could not escape ; and the monkey would pretend that he saw nothing , and rejoice the hidden puma 's heart by seeming to walk straight into the snare , when , lo !
a loud laugh would be heard , and the monkey 's grinning face would peer out of a mass of creepers and disappear before his foe could reach him .
This state of things had gone on for quite a long while , when at last there came a season such as the oldest parrot in the forest could never remember .
Instead of two or three hundred inches of rain falling , which they were all accustomed to , month after month passed without a cloud , and the rivers and springs dried up , till there was only one small pool left for everyone to drink from .
There was not an animal for miles round that did not grieve over this shocking condition of affairs , not one at least except the puma .
His only thought for years had been how to get the monkey into his power , and this time he imagined his chance had really arrived .
He would hide himself in a thicket , and when the monkey came down to drink -- and come he must -- the puma would spring out and seize him .
Yes , on this occasion there could be no escape !
And no more there would have been if the puma had had greater patience ; but in his excitement he moved a little too soon .
The monkey , who was stooping to drink , heard a rustling , and turning caught the gleam of two yellow , murderous eyes .
With a mighty spring he grasped a creeper which was hanging above him , and landed himself on the branch of a tree ; feeling the breath of the puma on his feet as the animal bounded from is cover .
Never had the monkey been so near death , and it was some time before he recovered enough courage to venture on the ground again .
Up there in the shelter of the trees , he began to turn over in his head plans for escaping the snares of the puma .
And at length chance helped him .
Peeping down to the earth , he saw a man coming along the path carrying on his head a large gourd filled with honey .
He waited till the man was just underneath the tree , then he hung from a bough , and caught the gourd while the man looked up wondering , for he was no tree-climber .
Then the monkey rubbed the honey all over him , and a quantity of leaves from a creeper that was hanging close by ; he stuck them all close together into the honey , so that he looked like a walking bush .
This finished , he ran to the pool to see the result , and , quite pleased with himself , set out in search of adventures .
Soon the report went through the forest that a new animal had appeared from no one knew where , and that when somebody had asked his name , the strange creature had answered that it was Jack-in-the-Green .
Thanks to this , the monkey was allowed to drink at the pool as often as he liked , for neither beast nor bird had the faintest notion who he was .
And if they made any inquiries the only answer they got was that the water of which he had drunk deeply had turned his hair into leaves , so that they all knew what would happen in case they became too greedy .
By-and-by the great rains began again .
The rivers and streams filled up , and there was no need for him to go back to the pool , near the home of his enemy , the puma , as there was a large number of places for him to choose from .
So one night , when everything was still and silent , and even the chattering parrots were asleep on one leg , the monkey stole down softly from his perch , and washed off the honey and the leaves , and came out from his bath in his own proper skin .
On his way to breakfast he met a rabbit , and stopped for a little talk . '
I am feeling rather dull , ' he remarked ; ' I think it would do me good to hunt a while .
What do you say ? '
` Oh , I am quite willing , ' answered the rabbit , proud of being spoken to by such a large creature .
` But the question is , what shall we hunt ? '
` There is no credit in going after an elephant or a tiger , ' replied the monkey stroking his chin , ` they are so big they could not possibly get out of your way .
It shows much more skill to be able to catch a small thing that can hide itself in a moment behind a leaf .
I 'll tell you what !
Suppose I hunt butterflies , and you , serpents . '
The rabbit , who was young and without experience , was delighted with this idea , and they both set out on their various ways .
The monkey quietly climbed up the nearest tree , and ate fruit most of the day , but the rabbit tired himself to death poking his nose into every heap of dried leaves he saw , hoping to find a serpent among them .
Luckily for himself the serpents were all away for the afternoon , at a meeting of their own , for there is nothing a serpent likes so well for dinner as a nice plump rabbit .
But , as it was , the dried leaves were all empty , and the rabbit at last fell asleep where he was .
Then the monkey , who had been watching him , fell down and pulled his ears , to the rage of the rabbit , who vowed vengeance .
It was not easy to catch the monkey off his guard , and the rabbit waited long before an opportunity arrived .
But one day Jack-in-the-Green was sitting on a stone , wondering what he should do next , when the rabbit crept softly behind him , and gave his tail a sharp pull .
The monkey gave a shriek of pain , and darted up into a tree , but when he saw that it was only the rabbit who had dared to insult him so , he chattered so fast in his anger , and looked so fierce , that the rabbit fled into the nearest hole , and stayed there for several days , trembling with fright .
Soon after this adventure the monkey went away into another part of the country , right on the outskirts of the forest , where there was a beautiful garden full of oranges hanging ripe from the trees .
This garden was a favourite place for birds of all kinds , each hoping to secure an orange for dinner , and in order to frighten the birds away and keep a little fruit for himself , the master had fastened a waxen figure on one of the boughs .
Now the monkey was as fond of oranges as any of the birds , and when he saw a man standing in the tree where the largest and sweetest oranges grew , he spoke to him at once .
` You man , ' he said rudely , ` throw me down that big orange up there , or I will throw a stone at you . '
The wax figure took no notice of this request , so the monkey , who was easily made angry , picked up a stone , and flung it with all his force .
But instead of falling to the ground again , the stone stuck to the soft wax .
At this moment a breeze shook the tree , and the orange on which the monkey had set his heart dropped from the bough .
He picked it up and ate it every bit , including the rind , and it was so good he thought he should like another .
So he called again to the wax figure to throw him an orange , and as the figure did not move , he hurled another stone , which stuck to the wax as the first had done .
Seeing that the man was quite indifferent to stones , the monkey grew more angry still , and climbing the tree hastily , gave the figure a violent kick .
But like the two stones his leg remained stuck to the wax , and he was held fast .
` Let me go at once , or I will give you another kick , ' he cried , suiting the action to the word , and this time also his foot remained in the grasp of the man .
Not knowing what he did , the monkey hit out , first with one hand and then with the other , and when he found that he was literally bound hand and foot , he became so mad with anger and terror that in his struggles he fell to the ground , dragging the figure after him .
This freed his hands and feet , but besides the shock of the fall , they had tumbled into a bed of thorns , and he limped away broken and bruised , and groaning loudly ; for when monkeys ARE hurt , they take pains that everybody shall know it .
It was a long time before Jack was well enough to go about again ; but when he did , he had an encounter with his old enemy the puma .
And this was how it came about .
One day the puma invited his friend the stag to go with him and see a comrade , who was famous for the good milk he got from his cows .
The stag loved milk , and gladly accepted the invitation , and when the sun began to get a little low the two started on their walk .
On the way they arrived on the banks of a river , and as there were no bridges in those days it was necessary to swim across it .
The stag was not fond of swimming , and began to say that he was tired , and thought that after all it was not worth going so far to get milk , and that he would return home .
But the puma easily saw through these excuses , and laughed at him .
` The river is not deep at all , ' he said ; ` why , you will never be off your feet .
Come , pluck up your courage and follow me . '
The stag was afraid of the river ; still , he was much more afraid of being laughed at , and he plunged in after the puma ; but in an instant the current had swept him away , and if it had not borne him by accident to a shallow place on the opposite side , where he managed to scramble up the bank , he would certainly have been drowned .
As it was , he scrambled out , shaking with terror , and found the puma waiting for him .
` You had a narrow escape that time , ' said the puma .
After resting for a few minutes , to let the stag recover from his fright , they went on their way till they came to a grove of bananas .
` They look very good , ' observed the puma with a longing glance , ` and I am sure you must be hungry , friend stag ?
Suppose you were to climb the tree and get some .
You shall eat the green ones , they are the best and sweetest ; and you can throw the yellow ones down to me .
I dare say they will do quite well ! '
The stag did as he was bid , though , not being used to climbing , it gave him a deal of trouble and sore knees , and besides , his horns were continually getting entangled in the creepers .
What was worse , when once he had tasted the bananas , he found them not at all to his liking , so he threw them all down , green and yellow alike , and let the puma take his choice .
And what a dinner he made !
When he had QUITE done , they set forth once more .
The path lay through a field of maize , where several men were working .
As they came up to them , the puma whispered : ` Go on in front , friend stag , and just say `` Bad luck to all workers ! '' '
The stag obeyed , but the men were hot and tired , and did not think this a good joke .
So they set their dogs at him , and he was obliged to run away as fast as he could . '
I hope your industry will be rewarded as it deserves , ' said the puma as he passed along ; and the men were pleased , and offered him some of their maize to eat .
By-and-by the puma saw a small snake with a beautiful shining skin , lying coiled up at the foot of a tree .
` What a lovely bracelet that would make for your daughter , friend stag !
said he .
The stag stooped and picked up the snake , which bit him , and he turned angrily to the puma .
` Why did you not tell me it would bite ? '
he asked .
` Is it my fault if you are an idiot ? '
replied the puma .
At last they reached their journey 's end , but by this time it was late , and the puma 's comrade was ready for bed , so they slung their hammocks in convenient places , and went to sleep .
But in the middle of the night the puma rose softly and stole out of the door to the sheep-fold , where he killed and ate the fattest sheep he could find , and taking a bowl full of its blood , he sprinkled the sleeping stag with it .
This done , he returned to bed .
In the morning the shepherd went as usual to let the sheep out of the fold , and found one of them missing .
He thought directly of the puma , and ran to accuse him of having eaten the sheep .
` I , my good man ?
What had put it into your head to think of such a thing ?
Have I got any blood about me ?
If anyone has eaten a sheep it must be my friend the stag . '
Then the shepherd went to examine the sleeping stag , and of course he saw the blood .
` Ah !
I will teach you how to steal ! '
cried he , and he hit the stag such a blow on his skull that he died in a moment .
The noise awakened the comrade above , and he came downstairs .
The puma greeted him with joy , and begged he might have some of the famous milk as soon as possible , for he was very thirsty .
A large bucket was set before the puma directly .
He drank it to the last drop , and then took leave .
On his way home he met the monkey .
` Are you fond of milk ? '
asked he . '
I know a place where you get it very nice .
I will show you it if you like . '
The monkey knew that the puma was not so good-natured for nothing , but he felt quite able to take care of himself , so he said he should have much pleasure in accompanying his friend .
They soon reached the same river , and , as before , the puma remarked : ` Friend monkey , you will find it very shallow ; there is no cause for fear .
Jump in and I will follow . '
` Do you think you have the stag to deal with ? '
asked the monkey , laughing . '
I should prefer to follow ; if not I shall go no further .
The puma understood that it was useless trying to make the monkey do as he wished , so he chose a shallow place and began to swim across .
The monkey waited till the puma had got to the middle , then he gave a great spring and jumped on his back , knowing quite well that the puma would be afraid to shake him off , lest he should be swept away into deep water .
So in this manner they reached the bank .
The banana grove was not far distant , and here the puma thought he would pay the monkey out for forcing him to carry him over the river .
` Friend monkey , look what fine bananas , ' cried he .
` You are fond of climbing ; suppose you run up and throw me down a few .
You can eat the green ones , which are the nicest , and I will be content with the yellow . '
` Very well , ' answered the monkey , swinging himself up ; but he ate all the yellow ones himself , and only threw down the green ones that were left .
The puma was furious and cried out : ' I will punch your head for that . '
But the monkey only answered : ` If you are gong to talk such nonsense I wo n't walk with you . '
And the puma was silent .
In a few minutes more they arrived at the field were the men were reaping the maize , and the puma remarked as he had done before : ` Friend monkey , if you wish to please these men , just say as you go by : `` Bad luck to all workers . ''
` Very well , ' replied the monkey ; but , instead , he nodded and smiled , and said : ' I hope your industry may be rewarded as it deserves . '
The men thanked him heartily , let him pass on , and the puma followed behind him .
Further along the path they saw the shining snake lying on the moss .
` What a lovely necklace for your daughter , ' exclaimed the puma .
` Pick it up and take it with you . '
` You are very kind , but I will leave it for you , ' answered the monkey , and nothing more was said about the snake .
Not long after this they reached the comrade 's house , and found him just ready to go to bed .
So , without stopping to talk , the guests slung their hammocks , the monkey taking care to place his so high that no one could get at him .
Besides , he thought it would be more prudent not to fall asleep , so he only lay still and snored loudly .
When it was quite dark and no sound was to be heard , the puma crept out to the sheep-fold , killed the sheep , and carried back a bowl full of its blood with which to sprinkle the monkey .
But the monkey , who had been watching out of the corner of his eye , waited until the puma drew near , and with a violent kick upset the bowl all over the puma himself .
When the puma saw what had happened , he turned in a great hurry to leave the house , but before he could do so , he saw the shepherd coming , and hastily lay down again .
` This is the second time I have lost a sheep , ' the man said to the monkey ; ` it will be the worse for the thief when I catch him , I can tell you . '
The monkey did not answer , but silently pointed to the puma who was pretending to be asleep .
The shepherd stooped and saw the blood , and cried out : ` Ah !
so it is you , is it ?
then take that ! '
and with his stick he gave the puma such a blow on the head that he died then and there .
Then the monkey got up and went to the dairy , and drank all the milk he could find .
Afterwards he returned home and married , and that is the last we heard of him .
-LSB- Adapted from Folk-lore Bresilien . -RSB-
The Knights of the Fish Once upon a time there lived an old cobbler who worked hard at his trade from morning till night , and scarcely gave himself a moment to eat .
But , industrious as he was , he could hardly buy bread and cheese for himself and his wife , and they grew thinner and thinner daily .
For a long while whey pretended to each other that they had no appetite , and that a few blackberries from the hedges were a great deal nicer than a good strong bowl of soup .
But at length there came a day when the cobbler could bear it no longer , and he threw away his last , and borrowing a rod from a neighbour he went out to fish .
Now the cobbler was as patient about fishing as he had been about cobbling .
From dawn to dark he stood on the banks of the little stream , without hooking anything better than an eel , or a few old shoes , that even he , clever though he was , felt were not worth mending .
At length his patience began to give way , and as he undressed one night he said to himself : ` Well , I will give it one more chance ; and if I do n't catch a fish to-morrow , I will go and hang myself . '
He had not cast his line for ten minutes the next morning before he drew from the river the most beautiful fish he had ever seen in his life .
But he nearly fell into the water from surprise , when the fish began to speak to him , in a small , squeaky voice : ` Take me back to your hut and cook me ; then cut me up , and sprinkle me over with pepper and salt .
Give two of the pieces to your wife , and bury two more in the garden . '
The cobbler did not know what to make of these strange words ; but he was wiser than many people , and when he did not understand , he thought it was well to obey .
His children wanted to eat all the fish themselves , and begged their father to tell them what to do with the pieces he had put aside ; but the cobbler only laughed , and told them it was no business of theirs .
And when they were safe in bed he stole out and buried the two pieces in the garden .
By and by two babies , exactly alike , lay in a cradle , and in the garden were two tall plants , with two brilliant shields on the top .
Years passed away , and the babies were almost men .
They were tired of living quietly at home , being mistaken for each other by everybody they saw , and determined to set off in different directions , to seek adventures .
So , one fine morning , the two brothers left the hut , and walked together to the place where the great road divided .
There they embraced and parted , promising that if anything remarkable had happened to either , he would return to the cross roads and wait till his brother came .
The youth who took the path that ran eastwards arrived presently at a large city , where he found everybody standing at the doors , wringing their hands and weeping bitterly .
` What is the matter ? '
asked he , pausing and looking round .
And a man replied , in a faltering voice , that each year a beautiful girl was chosen by lot to be offered up to a dreadful fiery dragon , who had a mother even worse than himself , and this year the lot had fallen on their peerless princess .
` But where IS the princess ? '
said the young man once more , and again the man answered him : ` She is standing under a tree , a mile away , waiting for the dragon . '
This time the Knight of the Fish did not stop to hear more , but ran off as fast as he could , and found the princess bathed in tears , and trembling from head to foot .
She turned as she heard the sound of his sword , and removed her handkerchief from his eyes .
` Fly , ' she cried ; ` fly while you have yet time , before that monster sees you . '
She said it , and she mean it ; yet , when he had turned his back , she felt more forsaken than before .
But in reality it was not more than a few minutes before he came back , galloping furiously on a horse he had borrowed , and carrying a huge mirror across its neck . '
I am in time , then , ' he cried , dismounting very carefully , and placing the mirror against the trunk of a tree .
` Give me your veil , ' he said hastily to the princess .
And when she had unwound it from her head he covered the mirror with it .
` The moment the dragon comes near you , you must tear off the veil , ' cried he ; ` and be sure you hide behind the mirror .
Have no fear ; I shall be at hand . '
He and his horse had scarcely found shelter amongst some rocks , when the flap of the dragon 's wings could be plainly heard .
He tossed his head with delight at the sight of her , and approached slowly to the place where she stood , a little in front of the mirror .
Then , still looking the monster steadily in the face , she passed one hand behind her back and snatched off the veil , stepping swiftly behind the tree as she did so .
The princess had not known , when she obeyed the orders of the Knight of the Fish , what she expected to happen .
Would the dragon with snaky locks be turned to stone , she wondered , like the dragon in an old story her nurse had told her ; or would some fiery spark dart from the heart of the mirror , and strike him dead ?
Neither of these things occurred , but , instead , the dragon stopped short with surprise and rage when he saw a monster before him as big and strong as himself .
He shook his mane with rage and fury ; the enemy in front did exactly the same .
He lashed his tail , and rolled his red eyes , and the dragon opposite was no whit behind him .
Opening his mouth to its very widest , he gave an awful roar ; but the other dragon only roared back .
This was too much , and with another roar which made the princess shake in her shoes , he flung himself upon his foe .
In an instant the mirror lay at his feet broken into a thousand pieces , but as every piece reflected part of himself , the dragon thought that he too had been smashed into atoms .
It was the moment for which the Knight of the Fish had watched and waited , and before the dragon could find out that he was not hurt at all , the young man 's lance was down his throat , and he was rolling , dead , on the grass .
Oh !
what shouts of joy rang through the great city , when the youth came riding back with the princess sitting behind him , and dragging the horrible monster by a cord .
Everybody cried out that the king must give the victor the hand of the princess ; and so he did , and no one had ever seen such balls and feasts and sports before .
And when they were all over the young couple went to the palace prepared for them , which was so large that it was three miles round .
The first wet day after their marriage the bridegroom begged the bride to show him all the rooms in the palace , and it was so big and took so long that the sun was shining brightly again before they stepped on to the roof to see the view .
` What castle is that out there , ' asked the knight ; ` it seems to be made of black marble ? '
` It is called the castle of Albatroz , ' answered the princess .
` It is enchanted , and no one that has tried to enter it has ever come back . '
Her husband said nothing , and began to talk of something else ; but the next morning he ordered his horse , took his spear , called his bloodhound , and set off for the castle .
It needed a brave man to approach it , for it made your hair stand on end merely to look at it ; it was as dark as the night of a storm , and as silent as the grave .
But the Knight of the Fish knew no fear , and had never turned his back on an enemy ; so he drew out his horn , and blew a blast .
The sound awoke all the sleeping echoes in the castle , and was repeated now loudly , now softly ; now near , and now far .
But nobody stirred for all that .
` Is there anyone inside ? '
cried the young man in his loudest voice ; ` anyone who will give a knight hospitality ?
Neither governor , nor squire , not even a page ? '
` Not even a page ! '
answered the echoes .
But the young man did not heed them , and only struck a furious blow at the gate .
Then a small grating opened , and there appeared the tip of a huge nose , which belonged to the ugliest old woman that ever was seen .
` What do you want ? '
said she .
` To enter , ' he answered shortly .
` Can I rest here this night ?
Yes or No ? '
` No , No , No ! '
repeated the echoes .
Between the fierce sun and his anger at being kept waiting , the Knight of the Fish had grown so hot that he lifted his visor , and when the old woman saw how handsome he was , she began fumbling with the lock of the gate .
` Come in , come in , ' said she , ` so fine a gentleman will do us no harm . '
` Harm ! '
repeated the echoes , but again the young man paid no heed .
` Let us go in , ancient dame , ' but she interrupted him .
` You must call me the Lady Berberisca , ' she answered , sharply ; ` and this is my castle , to which I bid you welcome .
You shall live here with me and be my husband . '
But at these words the knight let his spear fall , so surprised was he . '
I marry YOU ?
why you must be a hundred at least ! '
cried he .
` You are mad !
All I desire is to inspect the castle and then go . '
As he spoke he heard the voices give a mocking laugh ; but the old woman took no notice , and only bade the knight follow her .
Old though she was , it seemed impossible to tire her .
There was no room , however small , she did not lead him into , and each room was full of curious things he had never seen before .
At length they came to a stone staircase , which was so dark that you could not see your hand if you held it up before your face . '
I have kept my most precious treasure till the last , ' said the old woman ; ` but let me go first , for the stairs are steep , and you might easily break your leg . '
So on she went , now and then calling back to the young man in the darkness .
But he did not know that she had slipped aside into a recess , till suddenly he put his foot on a trap door which gave way under him , and he fell down , down , as many good knights had done before him , and his voice joined the echoes of theirs .
` So you would not marry me ! '
chuckled the old witch .
` Ha !
ha !
Ha !
ha ! '
Meanwhile his brother had wandered far and wide , and at last he wandered back to the same great city where the other young knight had met with so many adventures .
He noticed , with amazement , that as he walked through the streets the guards drew themselves up in line , and saluted him , and the drummers played the royal march ; but he was still more bewildered when several servants in livery ran up to him and told him that the princess was sure something terrible had befallen him , and had made herself ill with weeping .
At last it occurred to him that once more he had been taken for his brother . '
I had better say nothing , ' thought he ; ` perhaps I shall be able to help him after all . '
So he suffered himself to be borne in triumph to the palace , where the princess threw herself into his arms .
` And so you did go to the castle ? '
she asked .
` Yes , of course I did , ' answered he .
` And what did you see there ? ' '
I am forbidden to tell you anything about it , until I have returned there once more , ' replied he .
` Must you really go back to that dreadful place ? '
she asked wistfully .
` You are the only man who has ever come back from it . ' '
I must , ' was all he answered .
And the princess , who was a wise woman , only said : ` Well , go to bed now , for I am sure you must be very tired . '
But the knight shook his head . '
I have sworn never to lie in a bed as long as my work in the castle remains standing . '
And the princess again sighed , and was silent .
Early next day the young man started for the castle , feeling sure that some terrible thing must have happened to his brother .
At the blast of his horn the long nose of the old woman appeared at the grating , but the moment she caught sight of his face , she nearly fainted from fright , as she thought it was the ghost of the youth whose bones were lying in the dungeon of the castle .
` Lady of all the ages , ' cried the new comer , ` did you not give hospitality to a young knight but a short time ago ? ' '
A short time ago ! '
wailed the voices .
` And how have you ill-treated him ? '
he went on .
` Ill-treated him ! '
answered the voices .
The woman did not stop to hear more ; she turned to fly ; but the knight 's sword entered her body .
` Where is my brother , cruel hag ? '
asked he sternly . '
I will tell you , ' said she ; ` but as I feel that I am going to die I shall keep that piece of news to myself , till you have brought me to life again . '
The young man laughed scornfully .
` How do you propose that I should work that miracle ? '
` Oh , it is quite easy .
Go into the garden and gather the flowers of the everlasting plant and some of dragon 's blood .
Crush them together and boil them in a large tub of water , and then put me into it . '
The knight did as the old witch bade him , and , sure enough , she came out quite whole , but uglier than ever .
She then told the young man what had become of his brother , and he went down into the dungeon , and brought up his body and the bodies of the other victims who lay there , and when they were all washed in the magic water their strength was restored to them .
And , besides these , he found in another cavern the bodies of the girls who had been sacrificed to the dragon , and brought them back to life also .
_BOOK_TITLE_ : Andrew_Lang___The_Crimson_Fairy_Book.txt.out
Lovely Ilonka There was once a king 's son who told his father that he wished to marry .
` No , no ! '
said the king ; ` you must not be in such a hurry .
Wait till you have done some great deed .
My father did not let me marry till I had won the golden sword you see me wear . '
The prince was much disappointed , but he never dreamed of disobeying his father , and he began to think with all his might what he could do .
It was no use staying at home , so one day he wandered out into the world to try his luck , and as he walked along he came to a little hut in which he found an old woman crouching over the fire .
` Good evening , mother .
I see you have lived long in this world ; do you know anything about the three bulrushes ? '
` Yes , indeed , I 've lived long and been much about in the world , but I have never seen or heard anything of what you ask .
Still , if you will wait till to-morrow I may be able to tell you something . '
Well , he waited till the morning , and quite early the old woman appeared and took out a little pipe and blew in it , and in a moment all the crows in the world were flying about her .
Not one was missing .
Then she asked if they knew anything about the three bulrushes , but not one of them did .
The prince went on his way , and a little further on he found another hut in which lived an old man .
On being questioned the old man said he knew nothing , but begged the prince to stay overnight , and the next morning the old man called all the ravens together , but they too had nothing to tell .
The prince bade him farewell and set out .
He wandered so far that he crossed seven kingdoms , and at last , one evening , he came to a little house in which was an old woman .
` Good evening , dear mother , ' said he politely .
` Good evening to you , my dear son , ' answered the old woman .
` It is lucky for you that you spoke to me or you would have met with a horrible death .
But may I ask where are you going ? ' '
I am seeking the three bulrushes .
Do you know anything about them ? ' '
I do n't know anything myself , but wait till to-morrow .
Perhaps I can tell you then . '
So the next morning she blew on her pipe , and lo !
and behold every magpie in the world flew up .
That is to say , all the magpies except one who had broken a leg and a wing .
The old woman sent after it at once , and when she questioned the magpies the crippled one was the only one who knew where the three bulrushes were .
Then the prince started off with the lame magpie .
They went on and on till they reached a great stone wall , many , many feet high .
` Now , prince , ' said the magpie , ` the three bulrushes are behind that wall . '
The prince wasted no time .
He set his horse at the wall and leaped over it .
Then he looked about for the three bulrushes , pulled them up and set off with them on his way home .
As he rode along one of the bulrushes happened to knock against something .
It split open and , only think !
out sprang a lovely girl , who said : ` My heart 's love , you are mine and I am yours ; do give me a glass of water . '
But how could the prince give it her when there was no water at hand ?
So the lovely maiden flew away .
He split the second bulrush as an experiment and just the same thing happened .
How careful he was of the third bulrush !
He waited till he came to a well , and there he split it open , and out sprang a maiden seven times lovelier than either of the others , and she too said : ` My heart 's love , I am yours and you are mine ; do give me a glass of water . '
This time the water was ready and the girl did not fly away , but she and the prince promised to love each other always .
Then they set out for home .
They soon reached the prince 's country , and as he wished to bring his promised bride back in a fine coach he went on to the town to fetch one .
In the field where the well was , the king 's swineherds and cowherds were feeding their droves , and the prince left Ilonka -LRB- for that was her name -RRB- in their care .
Unluckily the chief swineherd had an ugly old daughter , and whilst the prince was away he dressed her up in fine clothes , and threw Ilonka into the well .
The prince returned before long , bringing with him his father and mother and a great train of courtiers to escort Ilonka home .
But how they all stared when they saw the swineherd 's ugly daughter !
However , there was nothing for it but to take her home ; and , two days later , the prince married her , and his father gave up the crown to him .
But he had no peace !
He knew very well he had been cheated , though he could not think how .
Once he desired to have some water brought him from the well into which Ilonka had been thrown .
The coachman went for it and , in the bucket he pulled up , a pretty little duck was swimming .
He looked wonderingly at it , and all of a sudden it disappeared and he found a dirty looking girl standing near him .
The girl returned with him and managed to get a place as housemaid in the palace .
Of course she was very busy all day long , but whenever she had a little spare time she sat down to spin .
Her distaff turned of itself and her spindle span by itself and the flax wound itself off ; and however much she might use there was always plenty left .
When the queen -- or , rather , the swineherd 's daughter -- heard of this , she very much wished to have the distaff , but the girl flatly refused to give it to her .
However , at last she consented on condition that she might sleep one night in the king 's room .
The queen was very angry , and scolded her well ; but as she longed to have the distaff she consented , though she gave the king a sleeping draught at supper .
Then the girl went to the king 's room looking seven times lovelier than ever .
She bent over the sleeper and said : ` My heart 's love , I am yours and you are mine .
Speak to me but once ; I am your Ilonka . '
But the king was so sound asleep he neither heard nor spoke , and Ilonka left the room , sadly thinking he was ashamed to own her .
Soon after the queen again sent to say that she wanted to buy the spindle .
The girl agreed to let her have it on the same conditions as before ; but this time , also , the queen took care to give the king a sleeping draught .
And once more Ilonka went to the king 's room and spoke to him ; whisper as sweetly as she might she could get no answer .
Now some of the king 's servants had taken note of the matter , and warned their master not to eat and drink anything that the queen offered him , as for two nights running she had given him a sleeping draught .
The queen had no idea that her doings had been discovered ; and when , a few days later , she wanted the flax , and had to pay the same price for it , she felt no fears at all .
At supper that night the queen offered the king all sorts of nice things to eat and drink , but he declared he was not hungry , and went early to bed .
The queen repented bitterly her promise to the girl , but it was too late to recall it ; for Ilonka had already entered the king 's room , where he lay anxiously waiting for something , he knew not what .
All of a sudden he saw a lovely maiden who bent over him and said : ` My dearest love , I am yours and you are mine .
Speak to me , for I am your Ilonka . '
At these words the king 's heart bounded within him .
He sprang up and embraced and kissed her , and she told him all her adventures since the moment he had left her .
And when he heard all that Ilonka had suffered , and how he had been deceived , he vowed he would be revenged ; so he gave orders that the swineherd , his wife and daughter should all be hanged ; and so they were .
The next day the king was married , with great rejoicings , to the fair Ilonka ; and if they are not yet dead -- why , they are still living .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrehen . -RSB-
Lucky Luck Once upon a time there was a king who had an only son .
When the lad was about eighteen years old his father had to go to fight in a war against a neighbouring country , and the king led his troops in person .
He bade his son act as Regent in his absence , but ordered him on no account to marry till his return .
Time went by .
The prince ruled the country and never even thought of marrying .
But when he reached his twenty-fifth birthday he began to think that it might be rather nice to have a wife , and he thought so much that at last he got quite eager about it .
He remembered , however , what his father had said , and waited some time longer , till at last it was ten years since the king went out to war .
Then the prince called his courtiers about him and set off with a great retinue to seek a bride .
He hardly knew which way to go , so he wandered about for twenty days , when , suddenly , he found himself in his father 's camp .
The king was delighted to see his son , and had a great many questions to ask and answer ; but when he heard that instead of quietly waiting for him at home the prince was starting off to seek a wife he was very angry , and said : ` You may go where you please but I will not leave any of my people with you . '
Only one faithful servant stayed with the prince and refused to part from him .
They journeyed over hill and dale till they came to a place called Goldtown .
The King of Goldtown had a lovely daughter , and the prince , who soon heard about her beauty , could not rest till he saw her .
He was very kindly received , for he was extremely good-looking and had charming manners , so he lost no time in asking for her hand and her parents gave her to him with joy .
The wedding took place at once , and the feasting and rejoicings went on for a whole month .
At the end of the month they set off for home , but as the journey was a long one they spent the first evening at an inn .
Everyone in the house slept , and only the faithful servant kept watch .
About midnight he heard three crows , who had flown to the roof , talking together .
` That 's a handsome couple which arrived here tonight .
It seems quite a pity they should lose their lives so soon . '
` Truly , ' said the second crow ; ` for to-morrow , when midday strikes , the bridge over the Gold Stream will break just as they are driving over it .
But , listen !
whoever overhears and tells what we have said will be turned to stone up to his knees . '
The crows had hardly done speaking when away they flew .
And close upon them followed three pigeons .
` Even if the prince and princess get safe over the bridge they will perish , ' said they ; ` for the king is going to send a carriage to meet them which looks as new as paint .
But when they are seated in it a raging wind will rise and whirl the carriage away into the clouds .
Then it will fall suddenly to earth , and they will be killed .
But anyone who hears and betrays what we have said will be turned to stone up to his waist . '
With that the pigeons flew off and three eagles took their places , and this is what they said : ` If the young couple does manage to escape the dangers of the bridge and the carriage , the king means to send them each a splendid gold embroidered robe .
When they put these on they will be burnt up at once .
But whoever hears and repeats this will turn to stone from head to foot . '
Early next morning the travellers got up and breakfasted .
They began to tell each other their dreams .
At last the servant said : ` Gracious prince , I dreamt that if your Royal Highness would grant all I asked we should get home safe and sound ; but if you did not we should certainly be lost .
My dreams never deceive me , so I entreat you to follow my advice during the rest of the journey . '
` Do n't make such a fuss about a dream , ' said the prince ; ` dreams are but clouds .
Still , to prevent your being anxious I will promise to do as you wish . '
With that they set out on their journey .
At midday they reached the Gold Stream .
When they got to the bridge the servant said : ` Let us leave the carriage here , my prince , and walk a little way .
The town is not far off and we can easily get another carriage there , for the wheels of this one are bad and will not hold out much longer . '
The prince looked well at the carriage .
He did not think it looked so unsafe as his servant said ; but he had given his word and he held to it .
They got down and loaded the horses with the luggage .
The prince and his bride walked over the bridge , but the servant said he would ride the horses through the stream so as to water and bathe them .
They reached the other side without harm , and bought a new carriage in the town , which was quite near , and set off once more on their travels ; but they had not gone far when they met a messenger from the king who said to the prince : ` His Majesty has sent your Royal Highness this beautiful carriage so that you may make a fitting entry into your own country and amongst your own people . '
The prince was so delighted that he could not speak .
But the servant said : ` My lord , let me examine this carriage first and then you can get in if I find it is all right ; otherwise we had better stay in our own . '
The prince made no objections , and after looking the carriage well over the servant said : ` It is as bad as it is smart ' ; and with that he knocked it all to pieces , and they went on in the one that they had bought .
At last they reached the frontier ; there another messenger was waiting for them , who said that the king had sent two splendid robes for the prince and his bride , and begged that they would wear them for their state entry .
But the servant implored the prince to have nothing to do with them , and never gave him any peace till he had obtained leave to destroy the robes .
The old king was furious when he found that all his arts had failed ; that his son still lived and that he would have to give up the crown to him now he was married , for that was the law of the land .
He longed to know how the prince had escaped , and said : ` My dear son , I do indeed rejoice to have you safely back , but I can not imagine why the beautiful carriage and the splendid robes I sent did not please you ; why you had them destroyed . '
` Indeed , sire , ' said the prince , ' I was myself much annoyed at their destruction ; but my servant had begged to direct everything on the journey and I had promised him that he should do so .
He declared that we could not possibly get home safely unless I did as he told me . '
The old king fell into a tremendous rage .
He called his Council together and condemned the servant to death .
The gallows was put up in the square in front of the palace .
The servant was led out and his sentence read to him .
The rope was being placed round his neck , when he begged to be allowed a few last words .
` On our journey home , ' he said , ` we spent the first night at an inn .
I did not sleep but kept watch all night . '
And then he went on to tell what the crows had said , and as he spoke he turned to stone up to his knees .
The prince called to him to say no more as he had proved his innocence .
But the servant paid no heed to him , and by the time his story was done he had turned to stone from head to foot .
Oh !
how grieved the prince was to lose his faithful servant !
And what pained him most was the thought that he was lost through his very faithfulness , and he determined to travel all over the world and never rest till he found some means of restoring him to life .
Now there lived at Court an old woman who had been the prince 's nurse .
To her he confided all his plans , and left his wife , the princess , in her care .
` You have a long way before you , my son , ' said the old woman ; ` you must never return till you have met with Lucky Luck .
If he can not help you no one on earth can . '
So the prince set off to try to find Lucky Luck .
He walked and walked till he got beyond his own country , and he wandered through a wood for three days but did not meet a living being in it .
At the end of the third day he came to a river near which stood a large mill .
Here he spent the night .
When he was leaving next morning the miller asked him : ` My gracious lord , where are you going all alone ? '
And the prince told him .
` Then I beg your Highness to ask Lucky Luck this question : Why is it that though I have an excellent mill , with all its machinery complete , and get plenty of grain to grind , I am so poor that I hardly know how to live from one day to another ? '
The prince promised to inquire , and went on his way .
He wandered about for three days more , and at the end of the third day saw a little town .
It was quite late when he reached it , but he could discover no light anywhere , and walked almost right through it without finding a house where he could turn in .
But far away at the end of the town he saw a light in a window .
He went straight to it and in the house were three girls playing a game together .
The prince asked for a night 's lodging and they took him in , gave him some supper and got a room ready for him , where he slept .
Next morning when he was leaving they asked where he was going and he told them his story .
` Gracious prince , ' said the maidens , ` do ask Lucky Luck how it happens that here we are over thirty years old and no lover has come to woo us , though we are good , pretty , and very industrious . '
The prince promised to inquire , and went on his way .
Then he came to a great forest and wandered about in it from morning to night and from night to morning before he got near the other end .
Here he found a pretty stream which was different from other streams as , instead of flowing , it stood still and began to talk : ` Sir prince , tell me what brings you into these wilds ?
I must have been flowing here a hundred years and more and no one has ever yet come by . ' '
I will tell you , ' answered the prince , ` if you will divide yourself so that I may walk through . '
The stream parted at once , and the prince walked through without wetting his feet ; and directly he got to the other side he told his story as he had promised .
` Oh , do ask Lucky Luck , ' cried the brook , ` why , though I am such a clear , bright , rapid stream I never have a fish or any other living creature in my waters . '
The prince said he would do so , and continued his journey .
When he got quite clear of the forest he walked on through a lovely valley till he reached a little house thatched with rushes , and he went in to rest for he was very tired .
Everything in the house was beautifully clean and tidy , and a cheerful honest-looking old woman was sitting by the fire .
` Good-morning , mother , ' said the prince .
` May Luck be with you , my son .
What brings you into these parts ? ' '
I am looking for Lucky Luck , ' replied the prince .
` Then you have come to the right place , my son , for I am his mother .
He is not at home just now , he is out digging in the vineyard .
Do you go too .
Here are two spades .
When you find him begin to dig , but do n't speak a word to him .
It is now eleven o'clock .
When he sits down to eat his dinner sit beside him and eat with him .
After dinner he will question you , and then tell him all your troubles freely .
He will answer whatever you may ask . '
With that she showed him the way , and the prince went and did just as she had told him .
After dinner they lay down to rest .
All of a sudden Lucky Luck began to speak and said : ` Tell me , what sort of man are you , for since you came here you have not spoken a word ? ' '
I am not dumb , ' replied the young man , ` but I am that unhappy prince whose faithful servant has been turned to stone , and I want to know how to help him . '
` And you do well , for he deserves everything .
Go back , and when you get home your wife will just have had a little boy .
Take three drops of blood from the child 's little finger , rub them on your servant 's wrists with a blade of grass and he will return to life . ' '
I have another thing to ask , ' said the prince , when he had thanked him .
` In the forest near here is a fine stream but not a fish or other living creature in it .
Why is this ? '
` Because no one has ever been drowned in the stream .
But take care , in crossing , to get as near the other side as you can before you say so , or you may be the first victim yourself . '
` Another question , please , before I go .
On my way here I lodged one night in the house of three maidens .
All were well-mannered , hard-working , and pretty , and yet none has had a wooer .
Why was this ? '
` Because they always throw out their sweepings in the face of the sun . '
` And why is it that a miller , who has a large mill with all the best machinery and gets plenty of corn to grind is so poor that he can hardly live from day to day ? '
` Because the miller keeps everything for himself , and does not give to those who need it . '
The prince wrote down the answers to his questions , took a friendly leave of Lucky Luck , and set off for home .
When he reached the stream it asked if he brought it any good news .
` When I get across I will tell you , ' said he .
So the stream parted ; he walked through and on to the highest part of the bank .
He stopped and shouted out : ` Listen , oh stream !
Lucky Luck says you will never have any living creature in your waters until someone is drowned in you . '
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the stream swelled and overflowed till it reached the rock up which he had climbed , and dashed so far up it that the spray flew over him .
But he clung on tight , and after failing to reach him three times the stream returned to its proper course .
Then the prince climbed down , dried himself in the sun , and set out on his march home .
He spent the night once more at the mill and gave the miller his answer , and by-and-by he told the three sisters not to throw out all their sweepings in the face of the sun .
The prince had hardly arrived at home when some thieves tried to ford the stream with a fine horse they had stolen .
When they were half-way across , the stream rose so suddenly that it swept them all away .
From that time it became the best fishing stream in the country-side .
The miller , too , began to give alms and became a very good man , and in time grew so rich that he hardly knew how much he had .
And the three sisters , now that they no longer insulted the sun , had each a wooer within a week .
When the prince got home he found that his wife had just got a fine little boy .
He did not lose a moment in pricking the baby 's finger till the blood ran , and he brushed it on the wrists of the stone figure , which shuddered all over and split with a loud noise in seven parts and there was the faithful servant alive and well .
When the old king saw this he foamed with rage , stared wildly about , flung himself on the ground and died .
The servant stayed on with his royal master and served him faithfully all the rest of his life ; and , if neither of them is dead , he is serving him still .
-LSB- From Ungarische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Hairy Man Somewhere or other , but I do n't know where , there lived a king who owned two remarkably fine fields of rape , but every night two of the rape heaps were burnt down in one of the fields .
The king was extremely angry at this , and sent out soldiers to catch whoever had set fire to the ricks ; but it was all of no use -- not a soul could they see .
Then he offered nine hundred crowns to anyone who caught the evil-doer , and at the same time ordered that whoever did not keep proper watch over the fields should be killed ; but though there were a great many people , none seemed able to protect the fields .
The king had already put ninety-nine people to death , when a little swineherd came to him who had two dogs ; one was called ` Psst , ' and the other ` Hush ' ; and the boy told the king that he would watch over the ricks .
When it grew dark he climbed up on the top of the fourth rick , from where he could see the whole field .
About eleven o'clock he thought he saw someone going to a rick and putting a light to it .
` Just you wait , ' thought he , and called out to his dogs : ` Hi !
Psst , Hush , catch him ! '
But Psst and Hush had not waited for orders , and in five minutes the man was caught .
Next morning he was brought bound before the king , who was so pleased with the boy that he gave him a thousand crowns at once .
The prisoner was all covered with hair , almost like an animal ; and altogether he was so curious to look at that the king locked him up in a strong room and sent out letters of invitation to all the other kings and princes asking them to come and see this wonder .
That was all very well ; but the king had a little boy of ten years old who went to look at the hairy man also , and the man begged so hard to be set free that the boy took pity on him .
He stole the key of the strong room from his mother and opened the door .
Then he took the key back , but the hairy man escaped and went off into the world .
Then the kings and princes began to arrive one after another , and all were most anxious to see the hairy man ; but he was gone !
The king nearly burst with rage and with the shame he felt .
He questioned his wife sharply , and told her that if she could not find and bring back the hairy man he would put her in a hut made of rushes and burn her there .
The queen declared she had had nothing to do with the matter ; if her son had happened to take the key it had not been with her knowledge .
So they fetched the little prince and asked him all sorts of questions , and at last he owned that he had let the hairy man out .
The king ordered his servants to take the boy into the forest and to kill him there , and to bring back part of his liver and lungs .
There was grief all over the palace when the king 's command was known , for he was a great favourite .
But there was no help for it , and they took the boy out into the forest .
But the man was sorry for him , and shot a dog and carried pieces of his lungs and liver to the king , who was satisfied , and did not trouble himself any more .
The prince wandered about in the forest and lived as best he could for five years .
One day he came upon a poor little cottage in which was an old man .
They began to talk , and the prince told his story and sad fate .
Then they recognised each other , for the old fellow was no other than the hairy man whom the prince had set free , and who had lived ever since in the forest .
The prince stayed here for two years ; then he wished to go further .
The old man begged him hard to stay , but he would not , so his hairy friend gave him a golden apple out of which came a horse with a golden mane , and a golden staff with which to guide the horse .
The old man also gave him a silver apple out of which came the most beautiful hussars and a silver staff ; and a copper apple from which he could draw as many foot soldiers as ever he wished , and a copper staff .
He made the prince swear solemnly to take the greatest care of these presents , and then he let him go .
The boy wandered on and on till he came to a large town .
Here he took service in the king 's palace , and as no one troubled themselves about him he lived quietly on .
One day news was brought to the king that he must go out to war .
He was horribly frightened for he had a very small army , but he had to go all the same .
When they had all left , the prince said to the housekeeper : ` Give me leave to go to the next village -- I owe a small bill there , and I want to go and pay it ' ; and as there was nothing to be done in the palace the housekeeper gave him leave .
When he got beyond the town he took out his golden apple , and when the horse sprang out he swung himself into the saddle .
Then he took the silver and the copper apples , and with all these fine soldiers he joined the king 's army .
The king saw them approach with fear in his heart , for he did not know if it might not be an enemy ; but the prince rode up , and bowed low before him . '
I bring your Majesty reinforcements , ' said he .
The king was delighted , and all dread of his enemy at once disappeared .
The princesses were there too , and they were very friendly with the prince and begged him to get into their carriage so as to talk to them .
But he declined , and remained on horseback , as he did not know at what moment the battle might begin ; and whilst they were all talking together the youngest princess , who was also the loveliest , took off her ring , and her sister tore her handkerchief in two pieces , and they gave these gifts to the prince .
Suddenly the enemy came in sight .
The king asked whether his army or the prince 's should lead the way ; but the prince set off first and with his hussars he fought so bravely that only two of the enemy were left alive , and these two were only spared to act as messengers .
The king was overjoyed and so were his daughters at this brilliant victory .
As they drove home they begged the prince to join them , but he would not come , and galloped off with his hussars .
When he got near the town he packed his soldiers and his fine horse all carefully into the apple again , and then strolled into the town .
On his return to the palace he was well scolded by the housekeeper for staying away so long .
Well , the whole matter might have ended there ; but it so happened that the younger princess had fallen in love with the prince , as he had with her .
And as he had no jewels with him , he gave her the copper apple and staff .
One day , as the princesses were talking with their father , the younger one asked him whether it might not have been their servant who had helped him so much .
The king was quite angry at the idea ; but , to satisfy her , he ordered the servant 's room to be searched .
And there , to everyone 's surprise , they found the golden ring and the half of the handkerchief .
When these were brought to the king he sent for the prince at once and asked if it had been he who had come to their rescue .
` Yes , your Majesty , it was I , ' answered the prince .
` But where did you get your army ? '
` If you wish to see it , I can show it you outside the city walls . '
And so he did ; but first he asked for the copper apple from the younger princess , and when all the soldiers were drawn up there were such numbers that there was barely room for them .
The king gave him his daughter and kingdom as a reward for his aid , and when he heard that the prince was himself a king 's son his joy knew no bounds .
The prince packed all his soldiers carefully up once more , and they went back into the town .
Not long after there was a grand wedding ; perhaps they may all be alive still , but I do n't know .
To Your Good Health !
Long , long ago there lived a king who was such a mighty monarch that whenever he sneezed every one in the whole country had to say ` To your good health ! '
Every one said it except the shepherd with the staring eyes , and he would not say it .
The king heard of this and was very angry , and sent for the shepherd to appear before him .
The shepherd came and stood before the throne , where the king sat looking very grand and powerful .
But however grand or powerful he might be the shepherd did not feel a bit afraid of him .
` Say at once , `` To my good health ! '' '
cried the king .
` To my good health ! '
replied the shepherd .
` To mine -- to mine , you rascal , you vagabond ! '
stormed the king .
` To mine , to mine , your Majesty , ' was the answer .
` But to mine -- to my own , ' roared the king , and beat on his breast in a rage .
` Well , yes ; to mine , of course , to my own , ' cried the shepherd , and gently tapped his breast .
The king was beside himself with fury and did not know what to do , when the Lord Chamberlain interfered : ` Say at once -- say this very moment : `` To your health , your Majesty '' ; for if you do n't say it you 'll lose your life , whispered he .
` No , I wo n't say it till I get the princess for my wife , ' was the shepherd 's answer .
Now the princess was sitting on a little throne beside the king , her father , and she looked as sweet and lovely as a little golden dove .
When she heard what the shepherd said she could not help laughing , for there is no denying the fact that this young shepherd with the staring eyes pleased her very much ; indeed he pleased her better than any king 's son she had yet seen .
But the king was not as pleasant as his daughter , and he gave orders to throw the shepherd into the white bear 's pit .
The guards led him away and thrust him into the pit with the white bear , who had had nothing to eat for two days and was very hungry .
The door of the pit was hardly closed when the bear rushed at the shepherd ; but when it saw his eyes it was so frightened that it was ready to eat itself .
It shrank away into a corner and gazed at him from there , and , in spite of being so famished , did not dare to touch him , but sucked its own paws from sheer hunger .
The shepherd felt that if he once removed his eyes off the beast he was a dead man , and in order to keep himself awake he made songs and sang them , and so the night went by .
Next morning the Lord Chamberlain came to see the shepherd 's bones , and was amazed to find him alive and well .
He led him to the king , who fell into a furious passion , and said : ` Well , you have learned what it is to be very near death , and now will you say `` To my good health '' ? '
But the shepherd answered : ' I am not afraid of ten deaths !
I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to your death , ' cried the king ; and ordered him to be thrown into the den with the wild boars .
The wild boars had not been fed for a week , and when the shepherd was thrust into their don they rushed at him to tear him to pieces .
But the shepherd took a little flute out of the sleeve of his jacket and began to play a merry tune , on which the wild boars first of all shrank shyly away , and then got up on their hind legs and danced gaily .
The shepherd would have given anything to be able to laugh , they looked so funny ; but he dared not stop playing , for he knew well enough that the moment he stopped they would fall upon him and tear him to pieces .
His eyes were of no use to him here , for he could not have stared ten wild boars in the face at once ; so he kept on playing , and the wild boars danced very slowly , as if in a minuet , then by degrees he played faster and faster till they could hardly twist and turn quickly enough , and ended by all falling over each other in a heap , quite exhausted and out of breath .
Then the shepherd ventured to laugh at last ; and he laughed so long and so loud that when the Lord Chamberlain came early in the morning , expecting to find only his bones , the tears were still running down his cheeks from laughter .
As soon as the king was dressed the shepherd was again brought before him ; but he was more angry than ever to think the wild boars had not torn the man to bits , and he said : ` Well , you have learned what it feels to be near ten deaths , now say `` To my good health ! '' '
But the shepherd broke in with , ' I do not fear a hundred deaths , and I will only say it if I may have the princess for my wife . '
` Then go to a hundred deaths ! '
roared the king , and ordered the shepherd to be thrown down the deep vault of scythes .
The guards dragged him away to a dark dungeon , in the middle of which was a deep well with sharp scythes all round it .
At the bottom of the well was a little light by which one could see if anyone was thrown in whether he had fallen to the bottom .
When the shepherd was dragged to the dungeons he begged the guards to leave him alone a little while that he might look down into the pit of scythes ; perhaps he might after all make up his mind to say ` To your good health ' to the king .
So the guards left him alone and he stuck up his long stick near the well , hung his cloak round the stick and put his hat on the top .
He also hung his knapsack up inside the cloak so that it might seem to have some body within it .
When this was done he called out to the guards and said that he had considered the matter but after all he could not make up his mind to say what the king wished .
The guards came in , threw the hat and cloak , knapsack and stick all down the well together , watched to see how they put out the light at the bottom and came away , thinking that now there really was an end of the shepherd .
But he had hidden in a dark corner and was laughing to himself all the time .
Quite early next morning came the Lord Chamberlain , carrying a lamp and he nearly fell backwards with surprise when he saw the shepherd alive and well .
He brought him to the king , whose fury was greater than ever , but who cried : ` Well , now you have been near a hundred deaths ; will you say : `` To your good health '' ? '
But the shepherd only gave the same answer : ' I wo n't say it till the princess is my wife . '
` Perhaps after all you may do it for less , ' said the king , who saw that there was no chance of making away with the shepherd ; and he ordered the state coach to be got ready , then he made the shepherd get in with him and sit beside him , and ordered the coachman to drive to the silver wood .
When they reached it he said : ` Do you see this silver wood ?
Well , if you will say , `` To your good health , '' I will give it to you . '
The shepherd turned hot and cold by turns , but he still persisted : ' I will not say it till the princess is my wife . '
The king was much vexed ; he drove further on till they came to a splendid castle , all of gold , and then he said : ` Do you see this golden castle ?
Well , I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle , if only you will say that one thing to me : `` To your good health . '' '
The shepherd gaped and wondered and was quite dazzled , but he still said : ` No ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
This time the king was overwhelmed with grief , and gave orders to drive on to the diamond pond , and there he tried once more .
` Do you see this diamond pond ?
I will give you that too , the silver wood and the golden castle and the diamond pond .
You shall have them all -- all -- if you will but say : `` To your good health ! '' '
The shepherd had to shut his staring eyes tight not to be dazzled with the brilliant pond , but still he said : ` No , no ; I will not say it till I have the princess for my wife . '
Then the king saw that all his efforts were useless , and that he might as well give in , so he said : ` Well , well , it 's all the same to me -- I will give you my daughter to wife ; but , then , you really and truly must say to me : `` To your good health . '' '
` Of course I 'll say it ; why should I not say it ?
It stands to reason that I shall say it then . '
At this the king was more delighted than anyone could have believed .
He made it known all through the country that there were to be great rejoicings , as the princess was going to be married .
And everyone rejoiced to think that the princess , who had refused so many royal suitors , should have ended by falling in love with the staring-eyed shepherd .
There was such a wedding as had never been seen .
Everyone ate and drank and danced .
Even the sick were feasted , and quite tiny new-born children had presents given them .
But the greatest merry-making was in the king 's palace ; there the best bands played and the best food was cooked ; a crowd of people sat down to table , and all was fun and merry-making .
And when the groomsman , according to custom , brought in the great boar 's head on a big dish and placed it before the king so that he might carve it and give everyone a share , the savoury smell was so strong that the king began to sneeze with all his might .
` To your very good health , ' cried the shepherd before anyone else , and the king was so delighted that he did not regret having given him his daughter .
In time , when the old king died , the shepherd succeeded him .
He made a very good king and never expected his people to wish him well against their wills ; but , all the same , everyone did wish him well , for they all loved him .
-LSB- From Russische Mahrchen . -RSB-
The Story of the Seven Simons Far , far away , beyond all sorts of countries , seas and rivers , there stood a splendid city where lived King Archidej , who was as good as he was rich and handsome .
His great army was made up of men ready to obey his slightest wish ; he owned forty times forty cities , and in each city he had ten palaces with silver doors , golden roofs , and crystal windows .
His council consisted of the twelve wisest men in the country , whose long beards flowed down over their breasts , each of whom was as learned as a whole college .
This council always told the king the exact truth .
Now the king had everything to make him happy , but he did not enjoy anything because he could not find a bride to his mind .
One day , as he sat in his palace looking out to sea , a great ship sailed into the harbour and several merchants came on shore .
Said the king to himself : ` These people have travelled far and beheld many lands .
I will ask them if they have seen any princess who is as clever and as handsome as I am . '
So he ordered the merchants to be brought before him , and when they came he said : ` You have travelled much and visited many wonders .
I wish to ask you a question , and I beg you to answer truthfully .
` Have you anywhere seen or heard of the daughter of an emperor , king , or a prince , who is as clever and as handsome as I am , and who would be worthy to be my wife and the queen of my country ? '
The merchants considered for some time .
At last the eldest of them said : ' I have heard that across many seas , in the Island of Busan , there is a mighty king , whose daughter , the Princess Helena , is so lovely that she can certainly not be plainer than your Majesty , and so clever that the wisest greybeard can not guess her riddles . '
` Is the island far off , and which is the way to it ? '
` It is not near , ' was the answer .
` The journey would take ten years , and we do not know the way .
And even if we did , what use would that be ?
The princess is no bride for you . '
` How dare you say so ? '
cried the king angrily .
` Your Majesty must pardon us ; but just think for a moment .
Should you send an envoy to the island he will take ten years to get there and ten more to return -- twenty years in all .
Will not the princess have grown old in that time and have lost all her beauty ? '
The king reflected gravely .
Then he thanked the merchants , gave them leave to trade in his country without paying any duties , and dismissed them .
After they were gone the king remained deep in thought .
He felt puzzled and anxious ; so he decided to ride into the country to distract his mind , and sent for his huntsmen and falconers .
The huntsmen blew their horns , the falconers took their hawks on their wrists , and off they all set out across country till they came to a green hedge .
On the other side of the hedge stretched a great field of maize as far as the eye could reach , and the yellow ears swayed to and fro in the gentle breeze like a rippling sea of gold .
The king drew rein and admired the field .
` Upon my word , ' said he , ` whoever dug and planted it must be good workmen .
If all the fields in my kingdom were as well cared for as this , there would be more bread than my people could eat . '
And he wished to know to whom the field belonged .
Off rushed all his followers at once to do his bidding , and found a nice , tidy farmhouse , in front of which sat seven peasants , lunching on rye bread and drinking water .
They wore red shirts bound with gold braid , and were so much alike that one could hardly tell one from another .
The messengers asked : ` Who owns this field of golden maize ? '
And the seven brothers answered : ` The field is ours . '
` And who are you ? '
` We are King Archidej 's labourers . '
These answers were repeated to the king , who ordered the brothers to be brought before him at once .
On being asked who they were , the eldest said , bowing low : ` We , King Archidej , are your labourers , children of one father and mother , and we all have the same name , for each of us is called Simon .
Our father taught us to be true to our king , and to till the ground , and to be kind to our neighbours .
He also taught each of us a different trade which he thought might be useful to us , and he bade us not neglect our mother earth , which would be sure amply to repay our labour . '
The king was pleased with the honest peasant , and said : ` You have done well , good people , in planting your field , and now you have a golden harvest .
But I should like each of you to tell me what special trades your father taught you . '
` My trade , O king ! '
said the first Simon , ` is not an easy one .
If you will give me some workmen and materials I will build you a great white pillar that shall reach far above the clouds . '
` Very good , ' replied the king .
` And you , Simon the second , what is your trade ? '
` Mine , your Majesty , needs no great cleverness .
When my brother has built the pillar I can mount it , and from the top , far above the clouds , I can see what is happening : in every country under the sun . '
` Good , ' said the king ; ` and Simon the third ? '
` My work is very simple , sire .
You have many ships built by learned men , with all sorts of new and clever improvements .
If you wish it I will build you quite a simple boat -- one , two , three , and it 's done !
But my plain little home-made ship is not grand enough for a king .
Where other ships take a year , mine makes the voyage in a day , and where they would require ten years mine will do the distance in a week . '
` Good , ' said the king again ; ` and what has Simon the fourth learnt ? '
` My trade , O king , is really of no importance .
Should my brother build you a ship , then let me embark in it .
If we should be pursued by an enemy I can seize our boat by the prow and sink it to the bottom of the sea .
When the enemy has sailed off , I can draw it up to the top again . '
` That is very clever of you , ' answered the king ; ` and what does Simon the fifth do ? '
` My work , your Majesty , is mere smith 's work .
Order me to build a smithy and I will make you a cross-bow , but from which neither the eagle in the sky nor the wild beast in the forest is safe .
The bolt hits whatever the eye sees . '
` That sounds very useful , ' said the king .
` And now , Simon the sixth , tell me your trade . '
` Sire , it is so simple I am almost ashamed to mention it .
If my brother hits any creature I catch it quicker than any dog can .
If it falls into the water I pick it up out of the greatest depths , and if it is in a dark forest I can find it even at midnight . '
The king was much pleased with the trades and talk of the six brothers , and said : ` Thank you , good people ; your father did well to teach you all these things .
Now follow me to the town , as I want to see what you can do .
I need such people as you about me ; but when harvest time comes I will send you home with royal presents . '
The brothers bowed and said : ` As the king wills . '
Suddenly the king remembered that he had not questioned the seventh Simon , so he turned to him and said : ` Why are you silent ?
What is your handicraft ? '
And the seventh Simon answered : ' I have no handicraft , O king ; I have learnt nothing .
I could not manage it .
And if I do know how to do anything it is not what might properly be called a real trade -- it is rather a sort of performance ; but it is one which no one -- not the king himself -- must watch me doing , and I doubt whether this performance of mine would please your Majesty . '
` Come , come , ' cried the king ; ' I will have no excuses , what is this trade ? '
` First , sire , give me your royal word that you will not kill me when I have told you .
Then you shall hear . '
` So be it , then ; I give you my royal word . '
Then the seventh Simon stepped back a little , cleared his throat , and said : ` My trade , King Archidej , is of such a kind that the man who follows it in your kingdom generally loses his life and has no hopes of pardon .
There is only one thing I can do really well , and that is -- to steal , and to hide the smallest scrap of anything I have stolen .
Not the deepest vault , even if its lock were enchanted , could prevent my stealing anything out of it that I wished to have . '
When the king heard this he fell into a passion . '
I will not pardon you , you rascal , ' he cried ; ' I will shut you up in my deepest dungeon on bread and water till you have forgotten such a trade .
Indeed , it would be better to put you to death at once , and I 've a good mind to do so . '
` Do n't kill me , O king !
I am really not as bad as you think .
Why , had I chosen , I could have robbed the royal treasury , have bribed your judges to let me off , and built a white marble palace with what was left .
But though I know how to steal I do n't do it .
You yourself asked me my trade .
If you kill me you will break your royal word . '
` Very well , ' said the king , ' I will not kill you .
I pardon you .
But from this hour you shall be shut up in a dark dungeon .
Here , guards !
away with him to the prison .
But you six Simons follow me and be assured of my royal favour . '
So the six Simons followed the king .
The seventh Simon was seized by the guards , who put him in chains and threw him in prison with only bread and water for food .
Next day the king gave the first Simon carpenters , masons , smiths and labourers , with great stores of iron , mortar , and the like , and Simon began to build .
And he built his great white pillar far , far up into the clouds , as high as the nearest stars ; but the other stars were higher still .
Then the second Simon climbed up the pillar and saw and heard all that was going on through the whole world .
When he came down he had all sorts of wonderful things to tell .
How one king was marching in battle against another , and which was likely to be the victor .
How , in another place , great rejoicings were going on , while in a third people were dying of famine .
In fact there was not the smallest event going on over the earth that was hidden from him .
Next the third Simon began .
He stretched out his arms , once , twice , thrice , and the wonder-ship was ready .
At a sign from the king it was launched , and floated proudly and safely like a bird on the waves .
Instead of ropes it had wires for rigging , and musicians played on them with fiddle bows and made lovely music .
As the ship swam about , the fourth Simon seized the prow with his strong hand , and in a moment it was gone -- sunk to the bottom of the sea .
An hour passed , and then the ship floated again , drawn up by Simon 's left hand , while in his right he brought a gigantic fish from the depth of the ocean for the royal table .
Whilst this was going on the fifth Simon had built his forge and hammered out his iron , and when the king returned from the harbour the magic cross-bow was made .
His Majesty went out into an open field at once , looked up into the sky and saw , far , far away , an eagle flying up towards the sun and looking like a little speck .
` Now , ' said the king , ` if you can shoot that bird I will reward you . '
Simon only smiled ; he lifted his cross-bow , took aim , fired , and the eagle fell .
As it was falling the sixth Simon ran with a dish , caught the bird before it fell to earth and brought it to the king .
` Many thanks , my brave lads , ' said the king ; ' I see that each of you is indeed a master of his trade .
You shall be richly rewarded .
But now rest and have your dinner . '
The six Simons bowed and went to dinner .
But they had hardly begun before a messenger came to say that the king wanted to see them .
They obeyed at once and found him surrounded by all his court and men of state .
` Listen , my good fellows , ' cried the king , as soon as he saw them .
` Hear what my wise counsellors have thought of .
As you , Simon the second , can see the whole world from the top of the great pillar , I want you to climb up and to see and hear .
For I am told that , far away , across many seas , is the great kingdom of the Island of Busan , and that the daughter of the king is the beautiful Princess Helena . '
Off ran the second Simon and clambered quickly up the pillar .
He gazed around , listened on all sides , and then slid down to report to the king .
` Sire , I have obeyed your orders .
Far away I saw the Island of Busan .
The king is a mighty monarch , but full of pride , harsh and cruel .
He sits on his throne and declares that no prince or king on earth is good enough for his lovely daughter , that he will give her to none , and that if any king asks for her hand he will declare war against him and destroy his kingdom . '
` Has the king of Busan a great army ? '
asked King Archidej ; ` is his country far off ? '
` As far as I could judge , ' replied Simon , ` it would take you nearly ten years in fair weather to sail there .
But if the weather were stormy we might say twelve .
I saw the army being reviewed .
It is not so very large -- a hundred thousand men at arms and a hundred thousand knights .
Besides these , he has a strong bodyguard and a good many cross-bowmen .
Altogether you may say another hundred thousand , and there is a picked body of heroes who reserve themselves for great occasions requiring particular courage . '
The king sat for some time lost in thought .
At last he said to the nobles and courtiers standing round : ' I am determined to marry the Princess Helena , but how shall I do it ? '
The nobles , courtiers and counsellors said nothing , but tried to hide behind each other .
Then the third Simon said : ` Pardon me , your Majesty , if I offer my advice .
You wish to go to the Island of Busan ?
What can be easier ?
In my ship you will get there in a week instead of in ten years .
But ask your council to advise you what to do when you arrive -- in one word , whether you will win the princess peacefully or by war ? '
But the wise men were as silent as ever .
The king frowned , and was about to say something sharp , when the Court Fool pushed his way to the front and said : ` Dear me , what are all you clever people so puzzled about ?
The matter is quite clear .
As it seems it will not take long to reach the island why not send the seventh Simon ?
He will steal the fair maiden fast enough , and then the king , her father , may consider how he is going to bring his army over here -- it will take him ten years to do it !
-- no less !
What do you think of my plan ? '
` What do I think ?
Why , that your idea is capital , and you shall be rewarded for it .
Come , guards , hurry as fast as you can and bring the seventh Simon before me . '
Not many minutes later , Simon the seventh stood before the king , who explained to him what he wished done , and also that to steal for the benefit of his king and country was by no means a wrong thing , though it was very wrong to steal for his own advantage .
The youngest Simon , who looked very pale and hungry , only nodded his head .
` Come , ' said the king , ` tell me truly .
Do you think you could steal the Princess Helena ? '
` Why should I not steal her , sire ?
The thing is easy enough .
Let my brother 's ship be laden with rich stuffs , brocades , Persian carpets , pearls and jewels .
Send me in the ship .
Give me my four middle brothers as companions , and keep the two others as hostages . '
When the king heard these words his heart became filled with longing , and he ordered all to be done as Simon wished .
Every one ran about to do his bidding ; and in next to no time the wonder-ship was laden and ready to start .
The five Simons took leave of the king , went on board , and had no sooner set sail than they were almost out of sight .
The ship cut through the waters like a falcon through the air , and just a week after starting sighted the Island of Busan .
The coast appeared to be strongly guarded , and from afar the watchman on a high tower called out : ` Halt and anchor !
Who are you ?
Where do you come from , and what do you want ? '
The seventh Simon answered from the ship : ` We are peaceful people .
We come from the country of the great and good King Archidej , and we bring foreign wares -- rich brocades , carpets , and costly jewels , which we wish to show to your king and the princess .
We desire to trade -- to sell , to buy , and to exchange . '
The brothers launched a small boat , took some of their valuable goods with them , rowed to shore and went up to the palace .
The princess sat in a rose-red room , and when she saw the brothers coming near she called her nurse and other women , and told them to inquire who and what these people were , and what they wanted .
The seventh Simon answered the nurse : ` We come from the country of the wise and good King Archidej , ' said he , ` and we have brought all sorts of goods for sale .
We trust the king of this country may condescend to welcome us , and to let his servants take charge of our wares .
If he considers them worthy to adorn his followers we shall be content . '
This speech was repeated to the princess , who ordered the brothers to be brought to the red-room at once .
They bowed respectfully to her and displayed some splendid velvets and brocades , and opened cases of pearls and precious stones .
Such beautiful things had never been seen in the island , and the nurse and waiting women stood bewildered by all the magnificence .
They whispered together that they had never beheld anything like it .
The princess too saw and wondered , and her eyes could not weary of looking at the lovely things , or her fingers of stroking the rich soft stuffs , and of holding up the sparkling jewels to the light .
` Fairest of princesses , ' said Simon .
` Be pleased to order your waiting-maids to accept the silks and velvets , and let your women trim their head-dresses with the jewels ; these are no special treasures .
But permit me to say that they are as nothing to the many coloured tapestries , the gorgeous stones and ropes of pearls in our ship .
We did not like to bring more with us , not knowing what your royal taste might be ; but if it seems good to you to honour our ship with a visit , you might condescend to choose such things as were pleasing in your eyes . '
This polite speech pleased the princess very much .
She went to the king and said : ` Dear father , some merchants have arrived with the most splendid wares .
Pray allow me to go to their ship and choose out what I like . '
The king thought and thought , frowned hard and rubbed his ear .
At last he gave consent , and ordered out his royal yacht , with 100 cross-bows , 100 knights , and 1,000 soldiers , to escort the Princess Helena .
Off sailed the yacht with the princess and her escort .
The brothers Simon came on board to conduct the princess to their ship , and , led by the brothers and followed by her nurse and other women , she crossed the crystal plank from one vessel to another .
The seventh Simon spread out his goods , and had so many curious and interesting tales to tell about them , that the princess forgot everything else in looking and listening , so that she did not know that the fourth Simon had seized the prow of the ship , and that all of a sudden it had vanished from sight , and was racing along in the depths of the sea .
The crew of the royal yacht shouted aloud , the knights stood still with terror , the soldiers were struck dumb and hung their heads .
There was nothing to be done but to sail back and tell the king of his loss .
How he wept and stormed !
` Oh , light of my eyes , ' he sobbed ; ' I am indeed punished for my pride .
I thought no one good enough to be your husband , and now you are lost in the depths of the sea , and have left me alone !
As for all of you who saw this thing -- away with you !
Let them be put in irons and lock them up in prison , whilst I think how I can best put them to death ! '
Whilst the King of Busan was raging and lamenting in this fashion , Simon 's ship was swimming like any fish under the sea , and when the island was well out of sight he brought it up to the surface again .
At that moment the princess recollected herself .
` Nurse , ' said she , ` we have been gazing at these wonders only too long .
I hope my father wo n't be vexed at our delay . '
She tore herself away and stepped on deck .
Neither the yacht nor the island was in sight !
Helena wrung her hands and beat her breast .
Then she changed herself into a white swan and flew off .
But the fifth Simon seized his bow and shot the swan , and the sixth Simon did not let it fall into the water but caught it in the ship , and the swan turned into a silver fish , but Simon lost no time and caught the fish , when , quick as thought , the fish turned into a black mouse and ran about the ship .
It darted towards a hole , but before it could reach it Simon sprang upon it more swiftly than any cat , and then the little mouse turned once more into the beautiful Princess Helena .
Early one morning King Archidej sat thoughtfully at his window gazing out to sea .
His heart was sad and he would neither eat nor drink .
His thoughts were full of the Princess Helena , who was as lovely as a dream .
Is that a white gull he sees flying towards the shore , or is it a sail ?
No , it is no gull , it is the wonder-ship flying along with billowing sails .
Its flags wave , the fiddlers play on the wire rigging , the anchor is thrown out and the crystal plank laid from the ship to the pier .
The lovely Helena steps across the plank .
She shines like the sun , and the stars of heaven seem to sparkle in her eyes .
Up sprang King Archidej in haste : ` Hurry , hurry , ' he cried .
` Let us hasten to meet her !
Let the bugles sound and the joy bells be rung ! '
And the whole Court swarmed with courtiers and servants .
Golden carpets were laid down and the great gates thrown open to welcome the princess .
King Archidej went out himself , took her by the hand and led her into the royal apartments .
` Madam , ' said he , ` the fame of your beauty had reached me , but I had not dared to expect such loveliness .
Still I will not keep you here against your will .
If you wish it , the wonder-ship shall take you back to your father and your own country ; but if you will consent to stay here , then reign over me and my country as our queen . '
What more is there to tell ?
It is not hard to guess that the princess listened to the king 's wooing , and their betrothal took place with great pomp and rejoicings .
The brothers Simon were sent again to the Island of Busan with a letter to the king from his daughter to invite him to their wedding .
And the wonder-ship arrived at the Island of Busan just as all the knights and soldiers who had escorted the princess were being led out to execution .
Then the seventh Simon cried out from the ship : ` Stop !
stop !
