
It is a Saturday afternoon of blue and yellow autumn time, and the scene
is the High Street of a well-known market-town.  A large carrier's van
stands in the quadrangular fore-court of the White Hart Inn, upon the
sides of its spacious tilt being painted, in weather-beaten letters:
'Burthen, Carrier to Longpuddle.'  These vans, so numerous hereabout, are
a respectable, if somewhat lumbering, class of conveyance, much resorted
to by decent travellers not overstocked with money, the better among them
roughly corresponding to the old French _diligences_.

The present one is timed to leave the town at four in the afternoon
precisely, and it is now half-past three by the clock in the turret at
the top of the street.  In a few seconds errand-boys from the shops begin
to arrive with packages, which they fling into the vehicle, and turn away
whistling, and care for the packages no more.  At twenty minutes to four
an elderly woman places her basket upon the shafts, slowly mounts, takes
up a seat inside, and folds her hands and her lips.  She has secured her
corner for the journey, though there is as yet no sign of a horse being
put in, nor of a carrier.  At the three-quarters, two other women arrive,
in whom the first recognizes the postmistress of Upper Longpuddle and the
registrar's wife, they recognizing her as the aged groceress of the same
village.  At five minutes to the hour there approach Mr. Profitt, the
schoolmaster, in a soft felt hat, and Christopher Twink, the
master-thatcher; and as the hour strikes there rapidly drop in the parish
clerk and his wife, the seedsman and his aged father, the registrar; also
Mr. Day, the world-ignored local landscape-painter, an elderly man who
resides in his native place, and has never sold a picture outside it,
though his pretensions to art have been nobly supported by his fellow-
villagers, whose confidence in his genius has been as remarkable as the
outer neglect of it, leading them to buy his paintings so extensively (at
the price of a few shillings each, it is true) that every dwelling in the
parish exhibits three or four of those admired productions on its walls.

Burthen, the carrier, is by this time seen bustling round the vehicle;
the horses are put in, the proprietor arranges the reins and springs up
into his seat as if he were used to it--which he is.

'Is everybody here?' he asks preparatorily over his shoulder to the
passengers within.

As those who were not there did not reply in the negative the muster was
assumed to be complete, and after a few hitches and hindrances the van
with its human freight was got under way.  It jogged on at an easy pace
till it reached the bridge which formed the last outpost of the town.  The
carrier pulled up suddenly.

'Bless my soul!' he said, 'I've forgot the curate!'

All who could do so gazed from the little back window of the van, but the
curate was not in sight.

'Now I wonder where that there man is?' continued the carrier.

'Poor man, he ought to have a living at his time of life.'

'And he ought to be punctual,' said the carrier.  '"Four o'clock sharp is
my time for starting," I said to 'en.  And he said, "I'll be there."  Now
he's not here, and as a serious old church-minister he ought to be as
good as his word.  Perhaps Mr. Flaxton knows, being in the same line of
life?'  He turned to the parish clerk.

'I was talking an immense deal with him, that's true, half an hour ago,'
replied that ecclesiastic, as one of whom it was no erroneous supposition
that he should be on intimate terms with another of the cloth.  'But he
didn't say he would be late.'

The discussion was cut off by the appearance round the corner of the van
of rays from the curate's spectacles, followed hastily by his face and a
few white whiskers, and the swinging tails of his long gaunt coat.  Nobody
reproached him, seeing how he was reproaching himself; and he entered
breathlessly and took his seat.

'Now be we all here?' said the carrier again.  They started a second
time, and moved on till they were about three hundred yards out of the
town, and had nearly reached the second bridge, behind which, as every
native remembers, the road takes a turn and travellers by this highway
disappear finally from the view of gazing burghers.

'Well, as I'm alive!' cried the postmistress from the interior of the
conveyance, peering through the little square back-window along the road
townward.

'What?' said the carrier.

'A man hailing us!'

Another sudden stoppage.  'Somebody else?' the carrier asked.

'Ay, sure!'  All waited silently, while those who could gaze out did so.

'Now, who can that be?' Burthen continued.  'I just put it to ye,
neighbours, can any man keep time with such hindrances?  Bain't we full
a'ready?  Who in the world can the man be?'

'He's a sort of gentleman,' said the schoolmaster, his position
commanding the road more comfortably than that of his comrades.

The stranger, who had been holding up his umbrella to attract their
notice, was walking forward leisurely enough, now that he found, by their
stopping, that it had been secured.  His clothes were decidedly not of a
local cut, though it was difficult to point out any particular mark of
difference.  In his left hand he carried a small leather travelling bag.
As soon as he had overtaken the van he glanced at the inscription on its
side, as if to assure himself that he had hailed the right conveyance,
and asked if they had room.

The carrier replied that though they were pretty well laden he supposed
they could carry one more, whereupon the stranger mounted, and took the
seat cleared for him within.  And then the horses made another move, this
time for good, and swung along with their burden of fourteen souls all
told.

'You bain't one of these parts, sir?' said the carrier.  'I could tell
that as far as I could see 'ee.'

'Yes, I am one of these parts,' said the stranger.

'Oh?  H'm.'

The silence which followed seemed to imply a doubt of the truth of the
new-comer's assertion.  'I was speaking of Upper Longpuddle more
particular,' continued the carrier hardily, 'and I think I know most
faces of that valley.'

'I was born at Longpuddle, and nursed at Longpuddle, and my father and
grandfather before me,' said the passenger quietly.

'Why, to be sure,' said the aged groceress in the background, 'it isn't
John Lackland's son--never--it can't be--he who went to foreign parts
five-and-thirty years ago with his wife and family?  Yet--what do I
hear?--that's his father's voice!'

'That's the man,' replied the stranger.  'John Lackland was my father,
and I am John Lackland's son.  Five-and-thirty years ago, when I was a
boy of eleven, my parents emigrated across the seas, taking me and my
sister with them.  Kytes's boy Tony was the one who drove us and our
belongings to Casterbridge on the morning we left; and his was the last
Longpuddle face I saw.  We sailed the same week across the ocean, and
there we've been ever since, and there I've left those I went with--all
three.'

'Alive or dead?'

'Dead,' he replied in a low voice.  'And I have come back to the old
place, having nourished a thought--not a definite intention, but just a
thought--that I should like to return here in a year or two, to spend the
remainder of my days.'

'Married man, Mr. Lackland?'

'No.'

'And have the world used 'ee well, sir--or rather John, knowing 'ee as a
child?  In these rich new countries that we hear of so much, you've got
rich with the rest?'

'I am not very rich,' Mr. Lackland said.  'Even in new countries, you
know, there are failures.  The race is not always to the swift, nor the
battle to the strong; and even if it sometimes is, you may be neither
swift nor strong.  However, that's enough about me.  Now, having answered
your inquiries, you must answer mine; for being in London, I have come
down here entirely to discover what Longpuddle is looking like, and who
are living there.  That was why I preferred a seat in your van to hiring
a carriage for driving across.'

'Well, as for Longpuddle, we rub on there much as usual.  Old figures
have dropped out o' their frames, so to speak it, and new ones have been
put in their places.  You mentioned Tony Kytes as having been the one to
drive your family and your goods to Casterbridge in his father's waggon
when you left.  Tony is, I believe, living still, but not at Longpuddle.
He went away and settled at Lewgate, near Mellstock, after his marriage.
Ah, Tony was a sort o' man!'

'His character had hardly come out when I knew him.'

'No.  But 'twas well enough, as far as that goes--except as to women.  I
shall never forget his courting--never!'

The returned villager waited silently, and the carrier went on:--
