
'Talking of Exhibitions, World's Fairs, and what not,' said the old
gentleman, 'I would not go round the corner to see a dozen of them
nowadays.  The only exhibition that ever made, or ever will make, any
impression upon my imagination was the first of the series, the parent of
them all, and now a thing of old times--the Great Exhibition of 1851, in
Hyde Park, London.  None of the younger generation can realize the sense
of novelty it produced in us who were then in our prime.  A noun
substantive went so far as to become an adjective in honour of the
occasion.  It was "exhibition" hat, "exhibition" razor-strop,
"exhibition" watch; nay, even "exhibition" weather, "exhibition" spirits,
sweethearts, babies, wives--for the time.

'For South Wessex, the year formed in many ways an extraordinary
chronological frontier or transit-line, at which there occurred what one
might call a precipice in Time.  As in a geological "fault," we had
presented to us a sudden bringing of ancient and modern into absolute
contact, such as probably in no other single year since the Conquest was
ever witnessed in this part of the country.'

These observations led us onward to talk of the different personages,
gentle and simple, who lived and moved within our narrow and peaceful
horizon at that time; and of three people in particular, whose queer
little history was oddly touched at points by the Exhibition, more
concerned with it than that of anybody else who dwelt in those outlying
shades of the world, Stickleford, Mellstock, and Egdon.  First in
prominence among these three came Wat Ollamoor--if that were his real
name--whom the seniors in our party had known well.

He was a woman's man, they said,--supremely so--externally little else.
To men he was not attractive; perhaps a little repulsive at times.
Musician, dandy, and company-man in practice; veterinary surgeon in
theory, he lodged awhile in Mellstock village, coming from nobody knew
where; though some said his first appearance in this neighbourhood had
been as fiddle-player in a show at Greenhill Fair.

Many a worthy villager envied him his power over unsophisticated
maidenhood--a power which seemed sometimes to have a touch of the weird
and wizardly in it.  Personally he was not ill-favoured, though rather un-
English, his complexion being a rich olive, his rank hair dark and rather
clammy--made still clammier by secret ointments, which, when he came
fresh to a party, caused him to smell like 'boys'-love' (southernwood)
steeped in lamp-oil.  On occasion he wore curls--a double row--running
almost horizontally around his head.  But as these were sometimes
noticeably absent, it was concluded that they were not altogether of
Nature's making.  By girls whose love for him had turned to hatred he had
been nicknamed 'Mop,' from this abundance of hair, which was long enough
to rest upon his shoulders; as time passed the name more and more
prevailed.

His fiddling possibly had the most to do with the fascination he
exercised, for, to speak fairly, it could claim for itself a most
peculiar and personal quality, like that in a moving preacher.  There
were tones in it which bred the immediate conviction that indolence and
averseness to systematic application were all that lay between 'Mop' and
the career of a second Paganini.

While playing he invariably closed his eyes; using no notes, and, as it
were, allowing the violin to wander on at will into the most plaintive
passages ever heard by rustic man.  There was a certain lingual character
in the supplicatory expressions he produced, which would well nigh have
drawn an ache from the heart of a gate-post.  He could make any child in
the parish, who was at all sensitive to music, burst into tears in a few
minutes by simply fiddling one of the old dance-tunes he almost entirely
affected--country jigs, reels, and 'Favourite Quick Steps' of the last
century--some mutilated remains of which even now reappear as nameless
phantoms in new quadrilles and gallops, where they are recognized only by
the curious, or by such old-fashioned and far-between people as have been
thrown with men like Wat Ollamoor in their early life.

His date was a little later than that of the old Mellstock quire-band
which comprised the Dewys, Mail, and the rest--in fact, he did not rise
above the horizon thereabout till those well-known musicians were
disbanded as ecclesiastical functionaries.  In their honest love of
thoroughness they despised the new man's style.  Theophilus Dewy (Reuben
the tranter's younger brother) used to say there was no 'plumness' in
it--no bowing, no solidity--it was all fantastical.  And probably this
was true.  Anyhow, Mop had, very obviously, never bowed a note of church-
music from his birth; he never once sat in the gallery of Mellstock
church where the others had tuned their venerable psalmody so many
hundreds of times; had never, in all likelihood, entered a church at all.
All were devil's tunes in his repertory.  'He could no more play the Wold
Hundredth to his true time than he could play the brazen serpent,' the
tranter would say.  (The brazen serpent was supposed in Mellstock to be a
musical instrument particularly hard to blow.)

Occasionally Mop could produce the aforesaid moving effect upon the souls
of grown-up persons, especially young women of fragile and responsive
organization.  Such an one was Car'line Aspent.  Though she was already
engaged to be married before she met him, Car'line, of them all, was the
most influenced by Mop Ollamoor's heart-stealing melodies, to her
discomfort, nay, positive pain and ultimate injury.  She was a pretty,
invocating, weak-mouthed girl, whose chief defect as a companion with her
sex was a tendency to peevishness now and then.  At this time she was not
a resident in Mellstock parish where Mop lodged, but lived some miles off
at Stickleford, farther down the river.

How and where she first made acquaintance with him and his fiddling is
not truly known, but the story was that it either began or was developed
on one spring evening, when, in passing through Lower Mellstock, she
chanced to pause on the bridge near his house to rest herself, and
languidly leaned over the parapet.  Mop was standing on his door-step, as
was his custom, spinning the insidious thread of semi- and
demi-semi-quavers from the E string of his fiddle for the benefit of
passers-by, and laughing as the tears rolled down the cheeks of the
little children hanging around him.  Car'line pretended to be engrossed
with the rippling of the stream under the arches, but in reality she was
listening, as he knew.  Presently the aching of the heart seized her
simultaneously with a wild desire to glide airily in the mazes of an
infinite dance.  To shake off the fascination she resolved to go on,
although it would be necessary to pass him as he played.  On stealthily
glancing ahead at the performer, she found to her relief that his eyes
were closed in abandonment to instrumentation, and she strode on boldly.
But when closer her step grew timid, her tread convulsed itself more and
more accordantly with the time of the melody, till she very nearly danced
along.  Gaining another glance at him when immediately opposite, she saw
that _one_ of his eyes was open, quizzing her as he smiled at her
emotional state.  Her gait could not divest itself of its compelled
capers till she had gone a long way past the house; and Car'line was
unable to shake off the strange infatuation for hours.

After that day, whenever there was to be in the neighbourhood a dance to
which she could get an invitation, and where Mop Ollamoor was to be the
musician, Car'line contrived to be present, though it sometimes involved
a walk of several miles; for he did not play so often in Stickleford as
elsewhere.

The next evidences of his influence over her were singular enough, and it
would require a neurologist to fully explain them.  She would be sitting
quietly, any evening after dark, in the house of her father, the parish
clerk, which stood in the middle of Stickleford village street, this
being the highroad between Lower Mellstock and Moreford, five miles
eastward.  Here, without a moment's warning, and in the midst of a
general conversation between her father, sister, and the young man before
alluded to, who devotedly wooed her in ignorance of her infatuation, she
would start from her seat in the chimney-corner as if she had received a
galvanic shock, and spring convulsively towards the ceiling; then she
would burst into tears, and it was not till some half-hour had passed
that she grew calm as usual.  Her father, knowing her hysterical
tendencies, was always excessively anxious about this trait in his
youngest girl, and feared the attack to be a species of epileptic fit.
Not so her sister Julia.  Julia had found out what was the cause.  At the
moment before the jumping, only an exceptionally sensitive ear situated
in the chimney-nook could have caught from down the flue the beat of a
man's footstep along the highway without.  But it was in that footfall,
for which she had been waiting, that the origin of Car'line's involuntary
springing lay.  The pedestrian was Mop Ollamoor, as the girl well knew;
but his business that way was not to visit her; he sought another woman
whom he spoke of as his Intended, and who lived at Moreford, two miles
farther on.  On one, and only one, occasion did it happen that Car'line
could not control her utterance; it was when her sister alone chanced to
be present.  'Oh--oh--oh--!' she cried.  'He's going to _her_, and not
coming to _me_!'

To do the fiddler justice he had not at first thought greatly of, or
spoken much to, this girl of impressionable mould.  But he had soon found
out her secret, and could not resist a little by-play with her too easily
hurt heart, as an interlude between his more serious performances at
Moreford.  The two became well acquainted, though only by stealth, hardly
a soul in Stickleford except her sister, and her lover Ned Hipcroft,
being aware of the attachment.  Her father disapproved of her coldness to
Ned; her sister, too, hoped she might get over this nervous passion for a
man of whom so little was known.  The ultimate result was that Car'line's
manly and simple wooer Edward found his suit becoming practically
hopeless.  He was a respectable mechanic, in a far sounder position than
Mop the nominal horse-doctor; but when, before leaving her, Ned put his
flat and final question, would she marry him, then and there, now or
never, it was with little expectation of obtaining more than the negative
she gave him.  Though her father supported him and her sister supported
him, he could not play the fiddle so as to draw your soul out of your
body like a spider's thread, as Mop did, till you felt as limp as withy-
wind and yearned for something to cling to.  Indeed, Hipcroft had not the
slightest ear for music; could not sing two notes in tune, much less play
them.

The No he had expected and got from her, in spite of a preliminary
encouragement, gave Ned a new start in life.  It had been uttered in such
a tone of sad entreaty that he resolved to persecute her no more; she
should not even be distressed by a sight of his form in the distant
perspective of the street and lane.  He left the place, and his natural
course was to London.

The railway to South Wessex was in process of construction, but it was
not as yet opened for traffic; and Hipcroft reached the capital by a six
days' trudge on foot, as many a better man had done before him.  He was
one of the last of the artisan class who used that now extinct method of
travel to the great centres of labour, so customary then from time
immemorial.

In London he lived and worked regularly at his trade.  More fortunate
than many, his disinterested willingness recommended him from the first.
During the ensuing four years he was never out of employment.  He neither
advanced nor receded in the modern sense; he improved as a workman, but
he did not shift one jot in social position.  About his love for Car'line
he maintained a rigid silence.  No doubt he often thought of her; but
being always occupied, and having no relations at Stickleford, he held no
communication with that part of the country, and showed no desire to
return.  In his quiet lodging in Lambeth he moved about after working-
hours with the facility of a woman, doing his own cooking, attending to
his stocking-heels, and shaping himself by degrees to a life-long
bachelorhood.  For this conduct one is bound to advance the canonical
reason that time could not efface from his heart the image of little
Car'line Aspent--and it may be in part true; but there was also the
inference that his was a nature not greatly dependent upon the
ministrations of the other sex for its comforts.

The fourth year of his residence as a mechanic in London was the year of
the Hyde-Park Exhibition already mentioned, and at the construction of
this huge glass-house, then unexampled in the world's history, he worked
daily.  It was an era of great hope and activity among the nations and
industries.  Though Hipcroft was, in his small way, a central man in the
movement, he plodded on with his usual outward placidity.  Yet for him,
too, the year was destined to have its surprises, for when the bustle of
getting the building ready for the opening day was past, the ceremonies
had been witnessed, and people were flocking thither from all parts of
the globe, he received a letter from Car'line.  Till that day the silence
of four years between himself and Stickleford had never been broken.

She informed her old lover, in an uncertain penmanship which suggested a
trembling hand, of the trouble she had been put to in ascertaining his
address, and then broached the subject which had prompted her to write.
Four years ago, she said with the greatest delicacy of which she was
capable, she had been so foolish as to refuse him.  Her wilful
wrong-headedness had since been a grief to her many times, and of late
particularly.  As for Mr. Ollamoor, he had been absent almost as long as
Ned--she did not know where.  She would gladly marry Ned now if he were
to ask her again, and be a tender little wife to him till her life's end.

A tide of warm feeling must have surged through Ned Hipcroft's frame on
receipt of this news, if we may judge by the issue.  Unquestionably he
loved her still, even if not to the exclusion of every other happiness.
This from his Car'line, she who had been dead to him these many years,
alive to him again as of old, was in itself a pleasant, gratifying thing.
Ned had grown so resigned to, or satisfied with, his lonely lot, that he
probably would not have shown much jubilation at anything.  Still, a
certain ardour of preoccupation, after his first surprise, revealed how
deeply her confession of faith in him had stirred him.  Measured and
methodical in his ways, he did not answer the letter that day, nor the
next, nor the next.  He was having 'a good think.'  When he did answer
it, there was a great deal of sound reasoning mixed in with the
unmistakable tenderness of his reply; but the tenderness itself was
sufficient to reveal that he was pleased with her straightforward
frankness; that the anchorage she had once obtained in his heart was
renewable, if it had not been continuously firm.

He told her--and as he wrote his lips twitched humorously over the few
gentle words of raillery he indited among the rest of his sentences--that
it was all very well for her to come round at this time of day.  Why
wouldn't she have him when he wanted her?  She had no doubt learned that
he was not married, but suppose his affections had since been fixed on
another?  She ought to beg his pardon.  Still, he was not the man to
forget her.  But considering how he had been used, and what he had
suffered, she could not quite expect him to go down to Stickleford and
fetch her.  But if she would come to him, and say she was sorry, as was
only fair; why, yes, he would marry her, knowing what a good little woman
she was at the core.  He added that the request for her to come to him
was a less one to make than it would have been when he first left
Stickleford, or even a few months ago; for the new railway into South
Wessex was now open, and there had just begun to be run wonderfully
contrived special trains, called excursion-trains, on account of the
Great Exhibition; so that she could come up easily alone.

She said in her reply how good it was of him to treat her so generously,
after her hot and cold treatment of him; that though she felt frightened
at the magnitude of the journey, and was never as yet in a railway-train,
having only seen one pass at a distance, she embraced his offer with all
her heart; and would, indeed, own to him how sorry she was, and beg his
pardon, and try to be a good wife always, and make up for lost time.

The remaining details of when and where were soon settled, Car'line
informing him, for her ready identification in the crowd, that she would
be wearing 'my new sprigged-laylock cotton gown,' and Ned gaily
responding that, having married her the morning after her arrival, he
would make a day of it by taking her to the Exhibition.  One early summer
afternoon, accordingly, he came from his place of work, and hastened
towards Waterloo Station to meet her.  It was as wet and chilly as an
English June day can occasionally be, but as he waited on the platform in
the drizzle he glowed inwardly, and seemed to have something to live for
again.

The 'excursion-train'--an absolutely new departure in the history of
travel--was still a novelty on the Wessex line, and probably everywhere.
Crowds of people had flocked to all the stations on the way up to witness
the unwonted sight of so long a train's passage, even where they did not
take advantage of the opportunity it offered.  The seats for the humbler
class of travellers in these early experiments in steam-locomotion, were
open trucks, without any protection whatever from the wind and rain; and
damp weather having set in with the afternoon, the unfortunate occupants
of these vehicles were, on the train drawing up at the London terminus,
found to be in a pitiable condition from their long journey; blue-faced,
stiff-necked, sneezing, rain-beaten, chilled to the marrow, many of the
men being hatless; in fact, they resembled people who had been out all
night in an open boat on a rough sea, rather than inland excursionists
for pleasure.  The women had in some degree protected themselves by
turning up the skirts of their gowns over their heads, but as by this
arrangement they were additionally exposed about the hips, they were all
more or less in a sorry plight.

In the bustle and crush of alighting forms of both sexes which followed
the entry of the huge concatenation into the station, Ned Hipcroft soon
discerned the slim little figure his eye was in search of, in the
sprigged lilac, as described.  She came up to him with a frightened
smile--still pretty, though so damp, weather-beaten, and shivering from
long exposure to the wind.

'O Ned!' she sputtered, 'I--I--'  He clasped her in his arms and kissed
her, whereupon she burst into a flood of tears.

'You are wet, my poor dear!  I hope you'll not get cold,' he said.  And
surveying her and her multifarious surrounding packages, he noticed that
by the hand she led a toddling child--a little girl of three or so--whose
hood was as clammy and tender face as blue as those of the other
travellers.

'Who is this--somebody you know?' asked Ned curiously.

'Yes, Ned.  She's mine.'

'Yours?'

'Yes--my own!'

'Your own child?'

'Yes!'

'Well--as God's in--'

'Ned, I didn't name it in my letter, because, you see, it would have been
so hard to explain!  I thought that when we met I could tell you how she
happened to be born, so much better than in writing!  I hope you'll
excuse it this once, dear Ned, and not scold me, now I've come so many,
many miles!'

'This means Mr. Mop Ollamoor, I reckon!' said Hipcroft, gazing palely at
them from the distance of the yard or two to which he had withdrawn with
a start.

Car'line gasped.  'But he's been gone away for years!' she supplicated.
'And I never had a young man before!  And I was so onlucky to be catched
the first time, though some of the girls down there go on like anything!'

Ned remained in silence, pondering.

'You'll forgive me, dear Ned?' she added, beginning to sob outright.  'I
haven't taken 'ee in after all, because--because you can pack us back
again, if you want to; though 'tis hundreds o' miles, and so wet, and
night a-coming on, and I with no money!'

'What the devil can I do!' Hipcroft groaned.

A more pitiable picture than the pair of helpless creatures presented was
never seen on a rainy day, as they stood on the great, gaunt, puddled
platform, a whiff of drizzle blowing under the roof upon them now and
then; the pretty attire in which they had started from Stickleford in the
early morning bemuddled and sodden, weariness on their faces, and fear of
him in their eyes; for the child began to look as if she thought she too
had done some wrong, remaining in an appalled silence till the tears
rolled down her chubby cheeks.

'What's the matter, my little maid?' said Ned mechanically.

'I do want to go home!' she let out, in tones that told of a bursting
heart.  'And my totties be cold, an' I shan't have no bread an' butter no
more!'

'I don't know what to say to it all!' declared Ned, his own eye moist as
he turned and walked a few steps with his head down; then regarded them
again point blank.  From the child escaped troubled breaths and silently
welling tears.

'Want some bread and butter, do 'ee?' he said, with factitious hardness.

'Ye-e-s!'

'Well, I daresay I can get 'ee a bit!  Naturally, you must want some.  And
you, too, for that matter, Car'line.'

'I do feel a little hungered.  But I can keep it off,' she murmured.

'Folk shouldn't do that,' he said gruffly. . . . 'There come along!' he
caught up the child, as he added, 'You must bide here to-night, anyhow, I
s'pose!  What can you do otherwise?  I'll get 'ee some tea and victuals;
and as for this job, I'm sure I don't know what to say!  This is the way
out.'

They pursued their way, without speaking, to Ned's lodgings, which were
not far off.  There he dried them and made them comfortable, and prepared
tea; they thankfully sat down.  The ready-made household of which he
suddenly found himself the head imparted a cosy aspect to his room, and a
paternal one to himself.  Presently he turned to the child and kissed her
now blooming cheeks; and, looking wistfully at Car'line, kissed her also.

'I don't see how I can send 'ee back all them miles,' he growled, 'now
you've come all the way o' purpose to join me.  But you must trust me,
Car'line, and show you've real faith in me.  Well, do you feel better
now, my little woman?'

The child nodded, her mouth being otherwise occupied.

'I did trust you, Ned, in coming; and I shall always!'

Thus, without any definite agreement to forgive her, he tacitly
acquiesced in the fate that Heaven had sent him; and on the day of their
marriage (which was not quite so soon as he had expected it could be, on
account of the time necessary for banns) he took her to the Exhibition
when they came back from church, as he had promised.  While standing near
a large mirror in one of the courts devoted to furniture, Car'line
started, for in the glass appeared the reflection of a form exactly
resembling Mop Ollamoor's--so exactly, that it seemed impossible to
believe anybody but that artist in person to be the original.  On passing
round the objects which hemmed in Ned, her, and the child from a direct
view, no Mop was to be seen.  Whether he were really in London or not at
that time was never known; and Car'line always stoutly denied that her
readiness to go and meet Ned in town arose from any rumour that Mop had
also gone thither; which denial there was no reasonable ground for
doubting.

And then the year glided away, and the Exhibition folded itself up and
became a thing of the past.  The park trees that had been enclosed for
six months were again exposed to the winds and storms, and the sod grew
green anew.  Ned found that Car'line resolved herself into a very good
wife and companion, though she had made herself what is called cheap to
him; but in that she was like another domestic article, a cheap tea-pot,
which often brews better tea than a dear one.  One autumn Hipcroft found
himself with but little work to do, and a prospect of less for the
winter.  Both being country born and bred, they fancied they would like
to live again in their natural atmosphere.  It was accordingly decided
between them that they should leave the pent-up London lodging, and that
Ned should seek out employment near his native place, his wife and her
daughter staying with Car'line's father during the search for occupation
and an abode of their own.

Tinglings of pleasure pervaded Car'line's spasmodic little frame as she
journeyed down with Ned to the place she had left two or three years
before, in silence and under a cloud.  To return to where she had once
been despised, a smiling London wife with a distinct London accent, was a
triumph which the world did not witness every day.

The train did not stop at the petty roadside station that lay nearest to
Stickleford, and the trio went on to Casterbridge.  Ned thought it a good
opportunity to make a few preliminary inquiries for employment at
workshops in the borough where he had been known; and feeling cold from
her journey, and it being dry underfoot and only dusk as yet, with a moon
on the point of rising, Car'line and her little girl walked on toward
Stickleford, leaving Ned to follow at a quicker pace, and pick her up at
a certain half-way house, widely known as an inn.

The woman and child pursued the well-remembered way comfortably enough,
though they were both becoming wearied.  In the course of three miles
they had passed Heedless-William's Pond, the familiar landmark by Bloom's
End, and were drawing near the Quiet Woman Inn, a lone roadside hostel on
the lower verge of the Egdon Heath, since and for many years abolished.
In stepping up towards it Car'line heard more voices within than had
formerly been customary at such an hour, and she learned that an auction
of fat stock had been held near the spot that afternoon.  The child would
be the better for a rest as well as herself, she thought, and she
entered.

The guests and customers overflowed into the passage, and Car'line had no
sooner crossed the threshold than a man whom she remembered by sight came
forward with glass and mug in his hands towards a friend leaning against
the wall; but, seeing her, very gallantly offered her a drink of the
liquor, which was gin-and-beer hot, pouring her out a tumblerful and
saying, in a moment or two: 'Surely, 'tis little Car'line Aspent that
was--down at Stickleford?'

She assented, and, though she did not exactly want this beverage, she
drank it since it was offered, and her entertainer begged her to come in
farther and sit down.  Once within the room she found that all the
persons present were seated close against the walls, and there being a
chair vacant she did the same.  An explanation of their position occurred
the next moment.  In the opposite corner stood Mop, rosining his bow and
looking just the same as ever.  The company had cleared the middle of the
room for dancing, and they were about to dance again.  As she wore a veil
to keep off the wind she did not think he had recognized her, or could
possibly guess the identity of the child; and to her satisfied surprise
she found that she could confront him quite calmly--mistress of herself
in the dignity her London life had given her.  Before she had quite
emptied her glass the dance was called, the dancers formed in two lines,
the music sounded, and the figure began.

Then matters changed for Car'line.  A tremor quickened itself to life in
her, and her hand so shook that she could hardly set down her glass.  It
was not the dance nor the dancers, but the notes of that old violin which
thrilled the London wife, these having still all the witchery that she
had so well known of yore, and under which she had used to lose her power
of independent will.  How it all came back!  There was the fiddling
figure against the wall; the large, oily, mop-like head of him, and
beneath the mop the face with closed eyes.

After the first moments of paralyzed reverie the familiar tune in the
familiar rendering made her laugh and shed tears simultaneously.  Then a
man at the bottom of the dance, whose partner had dropped away, stretched
out his hand and beckoned to her to take the place.  She did not want to
dance; she entreated by signs to be left where she was, but she was
entreating of the tune and its player rather than of the dancing man.  The
saltatory tendency which the fiddler and his cunning instrument had ever
been able to start in her was seizing Car'line just as it had done in
earlier years, possibly assisted by the gin-and-beer hot.  Tired as she
was she grasped her little girl by the hand, and plunging in at the
bottom of the figure, whirled about with the rest.  She found that her
companions were mostly people of the neighbouring hamlets and
farms--Bloom's End, Mellstock, Lewgate, and elsewhere; and by degrees she
was recognized as she convulsively danced on, wishing that Mop would
cease and let her heart rest from the aching he caused, and her feet
also.

After long and many minutes the dance ended, when she was urged to
fortify herself with more gin-and-beer; which she did, feeling very weak
and overpowered with hysteric emotion.  She refrained from unveiling, to
keep Mop in ignorance of her presence, if possible.  Several of the
guests having left, Car'line hastily wiped her lips and also turned to
go; but, according to the account of some who remained, at that very
moment a five-handed reel was proposed, in which two or three begged her
to join.

She declined on the plea of being tired and having to walk to
Stickleford, when Mop began aggressively tweedling 'My Fancy-Lad,' in D
major, as the air to which the reel was to be footed.  He must have
recognized her, though she did not know it, for it was the strain of all
seductive strains which she was least able to resist--the one he had
played when she was leaning over the bridge at the date of their first
acquaintance.  Car'line stepped despairingly into the middle of the room
with the other four.

Reels were resorted to hereabouts at this time by the more robust
spirits, for the reduction of superfluous energy which the ordinary
figure-dances were not powerful enough to exhaust.  As everybody knows,
or does not know, the five reelers stood in the form of a cross, the reel
being performed by each line of three alternately, the persons who
successively came to the middle place dancing in both directions.
Car'line soon found herself in this place, the axis of the whole
performance, and could not get out of it, the tune turning into the first
part without giving her opportunity.  And now she began to suspect that
Mop did know her, and was doing this on purpose, though whenever she
stole a glance at him his closed eyes betokened obliviousness to
everything outside his own brain.  She continued to wend her way through
the figure of 8 that was formed by her course, the fiddler introducing
into his notes the wild and agonizing sweetness of a living voice in one
too highly wrought; its pathos running high and running low in endless
variation, projecting through her nerves excruciating spasms, a sort of
blissful torture.  The room swam, the tune was endless; and in about a
quarter of an hour the only other woman in the figure dropped out
exhausted, and sank panting on a bench.

The reel instantly resolved itself into a four-handed one.  Car'line
would have given anything to leave off; but she had, or fancied she had,
no power, while Mop played such tunes; and thus another ten minutes
slipped by, a haze of dust now clouding the candles, the floor being of
stone, sanded.  Then another dancer fell out--one of the men--and went
into the passage, in a frantic search for liquor.  To turn the figure
into a three-handed reel was the work of a second, Mop modulating at the
same time into 'The Fairy Dance,' as better suited to the contracted
movement, and no less one of those foods of love which, as manufactured
by his bow, had always intoxicated her.

In a reel for three there was no rest whatever, and four or five minutes
were enough to make her remaining two partners, now thoroughly blown,
stamp their last bar and, like their predecessors, limp off into the next
room to get something to drink.  Car'line, half-stifled inside her veil,
was left dancing alone, the apartment now being empty of everybody save
herself, Mop, and their little girl.

She flung up the veil, and cast her eyes upon him, as if imploring him to
withdraw himself and his acoustic magnetism from the atmosphere.  Mop
opened one of his own orbs, as though for the first time, fixed it
peeringly upon her, and smiling dreamily, threw into his strains the
reserve of expression which he could not afford to waste on a big and
noisy dance.  Crowds of little chromatic subtleties, capable of drawing
tears from a statue, proceeded straightway from the ancient fiddle, as if
it were dying of the emotion which had been pent up within it ever since
its banishment from some Italian city where it first took shape and
sound.  There was that in the look of Mop's one dark eye which said: 'You
cannot leave off, dear, whether you would or no!' and it bred in her a
paroxysm of desperation that defied him to tire her down.

She thus continued to dance alone, defiantly as she thought, but in truth
slavishly and abjectly, subject to every wave of the melody, and probed
by the gimlet-like gaze of her fascinator's open eye; keeping up at the
same time a feeble smile in his face, as a feint to signify it was still
her own pleasure which led her on.  A terrified embarrassment as to what
she could say to him if she were to leave off, had its unrecognized share
in keeping her going.  The child, who was beginning to be distressed by
the strange situation, came up and said: 'Stop, mother, stop, and let's
go home!' as she seized Car'line's hand.

Suddenly Car'line sank staggering to the floor; and rolling over on her
face, prone she remained.  Mop's fiddle thereupon emitted an elfin shriek
of finality; stepping quickly down from the nine-gallon beer-cask which
had formed his rostrum, he went to the little girl, who disconsolately
bent over her mother.

The guests who had gone into the back-room for liquor and change of air,
hearing something unusual, trooped back hitherward, where they
endeavoured to revive poor, weak Car'line by blowing her with the bellows
and opening the window.  Ned, her husband, who had been detained in
Casterbridge, as aforesaid, came along the road at this juncture, and
hearing excited voices through the open casement, and to his great
surprise, the mention of his wife's name, he entered amid the rest upon
the scene.  Car'line was now in convulsions, weeping violently, and for a
long time nothing could be done with her.  While he was sending for a
cart to take her onward to Stickleford Hipcroft anxiously inquired how it
had all happened; and then the assembly explained that a fiddler formerly
known in the locality had lately revisited his old haunts, and had taken
upon himself without invitation to play that evening at the inn.

Ned demanded the fiddler's name, and they said Ollamoor.

'Ah!' exclaimed Ned, looking round him.  'Where is he, and where--where's
my little girl?'

Ollamoor had disappeared, and so had the child.  Hipcroft was in ordinary
a quiet and tractable fellow, but a determination which was to be feared
settled in his face now.  'Blast him!' he cried.  'I'll beat his skull in
for'n, if I swing for it to-morrow!'

He had rushed to the poker which lay on the hearth, and hastened down the
passage, the people following.  Outside the house, on the other side of
the highway, a mass of dark heath-land rose sullenly upward to its not
easily accessible interior, a ravined plateau, whereon jutted into the
sky, at the distance of a couple of miles, the fir-woods of Mistover
backed by the Yalbury coppices--a place of Dantesque gloom at this hour,
which would have afforded secure hiding for a battery of artillery, much
less a man and a child.

Some other men plunged thitherward with him, and more went along the
road.  They were gone about twenty minutes altogether, returning without
result to the inn.  Ned sat down in the settle, and clasped his forehead
with his hands.

'Well--what a fool the man is, and hev been all these years, if he thinks
the child his, as a' do seem to!' they whispered.  'And everybody else
knowing otherwise!'

'No, I don't think 'tis mine!' cried Ned hoarsely, as he looked up from
his hands.  'But she is mine, all the same!  Ha'n't I nussed her?  Ha'n't
I fed her and teached her?  Ha'n't I played wi' her?  O, little
Carry--gone with that rogue--gone!'

'You ha'n't lost your mis'ess, anyhow,' they said to console him.  'She's
throwed up the sperrits, and she is feeling better, and she's more to 'ee
than a child that isn't yours.'

'She isn't!  She's not so particular much to me, especially now she's
lost the little maid!  But Carry's everything!'

'Well, ver' like you'll find her to-morrow.'

'Ah--but shall I?  Yet he _can't_ hurt her--surely he can't!  Well--how's
Car'line now?  I am ready.  Is the cart here?'

She was lifted into the vehicle, and they sadly lumbered on toward
Stickleford.  Next day she was calmer; but the fits were still upon her;
and her will seemed shattered.  For the child she appeared to show
singularly little anxiety, though Ned was nearly distracted.  It was
nevertheless quite expected that the impish Mop would restore the lost
one after a freak of a day or two; but time went on, and neither he nor
she could be heard of, and Hipcroft murmured that perhaps he was
exercising upon her some unholy musical charm, as he had done upon
Car'line herself.  Weeks passed, and still they could obtain no clue
either to the fiddler's whereabouts or the girl's; and how he could have
induced her to go with him remained a mystery.

Then Ned, who had obtained only temporary employment in the
neighbourhood, took a sudden hatred toward his native district, and a
rumour reaching his ears through the police that a somewhat similar man
and child had been seen at a fair near London, he playing a violin, she
dancing on stilts, a new interest in the capital took possession of
Hipcroft with an intensity which would scarcely allow him time to pack
before returning thither.

He did not, however, find the lost one, though he made it the entire
business of his over-hours to stand about in by-streets in the hope of
discovering her, and would start up in the night, saying, 'That rascal's
torturing her to maintain him!'  To which his wife would answer
peevishly, 'Don't 'ee raft yourself so, Ned!  You prevent my getting a
bit o' rest!  He won't hurt her!' and fall asleep again.

That Carry and her father had emigrated to America was the general
opinion; Mop, no doubt, finding the girl a highly desirable companion
when he had trained her to keep him by her earnings as a dancer.  There,
for that matter, they may be performing in some capacity now, though he
must be an old scamp verging on threescore-and-ten, and she a woman of
four-and-forty.
