
'William, as you may know, was a curious, silent man; you could feel when
he came near 'ee; and if he was in the house or anywhere behind your back
without your seeing him, there seemed to be something clammy in the air,
as if a cellar door was opened close by your elbow.  Well, one Sunday, at
a time that William was in very good health to all appearance, the bell
that was ringing for church went very heavy all of a sudden; the sexton,
who told me o't, said he'd not known the bell go so heavy in his hand for
years--it was just as if the gudgeons wanted oiling.  That was on the
Sunday, as I say.  During the week after, it chanced that William's wife
was staying up late one night to finish her ironing, she doing the
washing for Mr. and Mrs. Hardcome.  Her husband had finished his supper
and gone to bed as usual some hour or two before.  While she ironed she
heard him coming down stairs; he stopped to put on his boots at the stair-
foot, where he always left them, and then came on into the living-room
where she was ironing, passing through it towards the door, this being
the only way from the staircase to the outside of the house.  No word was
said on either side, William not being a man given to much speaking, and
his wife being occupied with her work.  He went out and closed the door
behind him.  As her husband had now and then gone out in this way at
night before when unwell, or unable to sleep for want of a pipe, she took
no particular notice, and continued at her ironing.  This she finished
shortly after, and as he had not come in she waited awhile for him,
putting away the irons and things, and preparing the table for his
breakfast in the morning.  Still he did not return, but supposing him not
far off, and wanting to get to bed herself, tired as she was, she left
the door unbarred and went to the stairs, after writing on the back of
the door with chalk: _Mind and do the door_ (because he was a forgetful
man).

'To her great surprise, and I might say alarm, on reaching the foot of
the stairs his boots were standing there as they always stood when he had
gone to rest; going up to their chamber she found him in bed sleeping as
sound as a rock.  How he could have got back again without her seeing or
hearing him was beyond her comprehension.  It could only have been by
passing behind her very quietly while she was bumping with the iron.  But
this notion did not satisfy her: it was surely impossible that she should
not have seen him come in through a room so small.  She could not unravel
the mystery, and felt very queer and uncomfortable about it.  However,
she would not disturb him to question him then, and went to bed herself.

'He rose and left for his work very early the next morning, before she
was awake, and she waited his return to breakfast with much anxiety for
an explanation, for thinking over the matter by daylight made it seem
only the more startling.  When he came in to the meal he said, before she
could put her question, "What's the meaning of them words chalked on the
door?"

'She told him, and asked him about his going out the night before.
William declared that he had never left the bedroom after entering it,
having in fact undressed, lain down, and fallen asleep directly, never
once waking till the clock struck five, and he rose up to go to his
labour.

'Betty Privett was as certain in her own mind that he did go out as she
was of her own existence, and was little less certain that he did not
return.  She felt too disturbed to argue with him, and let the subject
drop as though she must have been mistaken.  When she was walking down
Longpuddle street later in the day she met Jim Weedle's daughter Nancy,
and said, "Well, Nancy, you do look sleepy to-day!"

'"Yes, Mrs. Privett," says Nancy.  "Now don't tell anybody, but I don't
mind letting you know what the reason o't is.  Last night, being Old
Midsummer Eve, some of us went to church porch, and didn't get home till
near one."

'"Did ye?" says Mrs. Privett.  "Old Midsummer yesterday was it?  Faith I
didn't think whe'r 'twas Midsummer or Michaelmas; I'd too much work to
do."

'"Yes.  And we were frightened enough, I can tell 'ee, by what we saw."

'"What did ye see?"

'(You may not remember, sir, having gone off to foreign parts so young,
that on Midsummer Night it is believed hereabout that the faint shapes of
all the folk in the parish who are going to be at death's door within the
year can be seen entering the church.  Those who get over their illness
come out again after a while; those that are doomed to die do not
return.)

'"What did you see?" asked William's wife.

'"Well," says Nancy, backwardly--"we needn't tell what we saw, or who we
saw."

'"You saw my husband," says Betty Privett, in a quiet way.

'"Well, since you put it so," says Nancy, hanging fire, "we--thought we
did see him; but it was darkish, and we was frightened, and of course it
might not have been he."

'"Nancy, you needn't mind letting it out, though 'tis kept back in
kindness.  And he didn't come out of church again: I know it as well as
you."

'Nancy did not answer yes or no to that, and no more was said.  But three
days after, William Privett was mowing with John Chiles in Mr. Hardcome's
meadow, and in the heat of the day they sat down to eat their bit o'
nunch under a tree, and empty their flagon.  Afterwards both of 'em fell
asleep as they sat.  John Chiles was the first to wake, and as he looked
towards his fellow-mower he saw one of those great white miller's-souls
as we call 'em--that is to say, a miller-moth--come from William's open
mouth while he slept, and fly straight away.  John thought it odd enough,
as William had worked in a mill for several years when he was a boy.  He
then looked at the sun, and found by the place o't that they had slept a
long while, and as William did not wake, John called to him and said it
was high time to begin work again.  He took no notice, and then John went
up and shook him, and found he was dead.

'Now on that very day old Philip Hookhorn was down at Longpuddle Spring
dipping up a pitcher of water; and as he turned away, who should he see
coming down to the spring on the other side but William, looking very
pale and odd.  This surprised Philip Hookhorn very much, for years before
that time William's little son--his only child--had been drowned in that
spring while at play there, and this had so preyed upon William's mind
that he'd never been seen near the spring afterwards, and had been known
to go half a mile out of his way to avoid the place.  On inquiry, it was
found that William in body could not have stood by the spring, being in
the mead two miles off; and it also came out that the time at which he
was seen at the spring was the very time when he died.'

* * * * *

'A rather melancholy story,' observed the emigrant, after a minute's
silence.

'Yes, yes.  Well, we must take ups and downs together,' said the
seedsman's father.

'You don't know, Mr. Lackland, I suppose, what a rum start that was
between Andrey Satchel and Jane Vallens and the pa'son and clerk o'
Scrimpton?' said the master-thatcher, a man with a spark of subdued
liveliness in his eye, who had hitherto kept his attention mainly upon
small objects a long way ahead, as he sat in front of the van with his
feet outside.  'Theirs was a queerer experience of a pa'son and clerk
than some folks get, and may cheer 'ee up a little after this dampness
that's been flung over yer soul.'

The returned one replied that he knew nothing of the history, and should
be happy to hear it, quite recollecting the personality of the man
Satchel.

'Ah no; this Andrey Satchel is the son of the Satchel that you knew; this
one has not been married more than two or three years, and 'twas at the
time o' the wedding that the accident happened that I could tell 'ee of,
or anybody else here, for that matter.'

'No, no; you must tell it, neighbour, if anybody,' said several; a
request in which Mr. Lackland joined, adding that the Satchel family was
one he had known well before leaving home.

'I'll just mention, as you be a stranger,' whispered the carrier to
Lackland, 'that Christopher's stories will bear pruning.'

The emigrant nodded.

'Well, I can soon tell it,' said the master-thatcher, schooling himself
to a tone of actuality.  'Though as it has more to do with the pa'son and
clerk than with Andrey himself, it ought to be told by a better churchman
than I.'
