The widely discussed possibility of an invasion of England through a
Channel tunnel has more than once recalled old Solomon Selby's story to
my mind.

The occasion on which I numbered myself among his audience was one
evening when he was sitting in the yawning chimney-corner of the
inn-kitchen, with some others who had gathered there, and I entered for
shelter from the rain.  Withdrawing the stem of his pipe from the dental
notch in which it habitually rested, he leaned back in the recess behind
him and smiled into the fire.  The smile was neither mirthful nor sad,
not precisely humorous nor altogether thoughtful.  We who knew him
recognized it in a moment: it was his narrative smile.  Breaking off our
few desultory remarks we drew up closer, and he thus began:--

'My father, as you mid know, was a shepherd all his life, and lived out
by the Cove four miles yonder, where I was born and lived likewise, till
I moved here shortly afore I was married.  The cottage that first knew me
stood on the top of the down, near the sea; there was no house within a
mile and a half of it; it was built o' purpose for the farm-shepherd, and
had no other use.  They tell me that it is now pulled down, but that you
can see where it stood by the mounds of earth and a few broken bricks
that are still lying about.  It was a bleak and dreary place in winter-
time, but in summer it was well enough, though the garden never came to
much, because we could not get up a good shelter for the vegetables and
currant bushes; and where there is much wind they don't thrive.

'Of all the years of my growing up the ones that bide clearest in my mind
were eighteen hundred and three, four, and five.  This was for two
reasons: I had just then grown to an age when a child's eyes and ears
take in and note down everything about him, and there was more at that
date to bear in mind than there ever has been since with me.  It was, as
I need hardly tell ye, the time after the first peace, when Bonaparte was
scheming his descent upon England.  He had crossed the great Alp
mountains, fought in Egypt, drubbed the Turks, the Austrians, and the
Proossians, and now thought he'd have a slap at us.  On the other side of
the Channel, scarce out of sight and hail of a man standing on our
English shore, the French army of a hundred and sixty thousand men and
fifteen thousand horses had been brought together from all parts, and
were drilling every day.  Bonaparte had been three years a-making his
preparations; and to ferry these soldiers and cannon and horses across he
had contrived a couple of thousand flat-bottomed boats.  These boats were
small things, but wonderfully built.  A good few of 'em were so made as
to have a little stable on board each for the two horses that were to
haul the cannon carried at the stern.  To get in order all these, and
other things required, he had assembled there five or six thousand
fellows that worked at trades--carpenters, blacksmiths, wheelwrights,
saddlers, and what not.  O 'twas a curious time!

'Every morning Neighbour Boney would muster his multitude of soldiers on
the beach, draw 'em up in line, practise 'em in the manoeuvre of
embarking, horses and all, till they could do it without a single hitch.
My father drove a flock of ewes up into Sussex that year, and as he went
along the drover's track over the high downs thereabout he could see this
drilling actually going on--the accoutrements of the rank and file
glittering in the sun like silver.  It was thought and always said by my
uncle Job, sergeant of foot (who used to know all about these matters),
that Bonaparte meant to cross with oars on a calm night.  The grand query
with us was, Where would my gentleman land?  Many of the common people
thought it would be at Dover; others, who knew how unlikely it was that
any skilful general would make a business of landing just where he was
expected, said he'd go either east into the River Thames, or west'ard to
some convenient place, most likely one of the little bays inside the Isle
of Portland, between the Beal and St. Alban's Head--and for choice the
three-quarter-round Cove, screened from every mortal eye, that seemed
made o' purpose, out by where we lived, and which I've climmed up with
two tubs of brandy across my shoulders on scores o' dark nights in my
younger days.  Some had heard that a part o' the French fleet would sail
right round Scotland, and come up the Channel to a suitable haven.
However, there was much doubt upon the matter; and no wonder, for after-
years proved that Bonaparte himself could hardly make up his mind upon
that great and very particular point, where to land.  His uncertainty
came about in this wise, that he could get no news as to where and how
our troops lay in waiting, and that his knowledge of possible places
where flat-bottomed boats might be quietly run ashore, and the men they
brought marshalled in order, was dim to the last degree.  Being
flat-bottomed, they didn't require a harbour for unshipping their cargo
of men, but a good shelving beach away from sight, and with a fair open
road toward London.  How the question posed that great Corsican tyrant
(as we used to call him), what pains he took to settle it, and, above
all, what a risk he ran on one particular night in trying to do so, were
known only to one man here and there; and certainly to no maker of
newspapers or printer of books, or my account o't would not have had so
many heads shaken over it as it has by gentry who only believe what they
see in printed lines.

'The flocks my father had charge of fed all about the downs near our
house, overlooking the sea and shore each way for miles.  In winter and
early spring father was up a deal at nights, watching and tending the
lambing.  Often he'd go to bed early, and turn out at twelve or one; and
on the other hand, he'd sometimes stay up till twelve or one, and then
turn in to bed.  As soon as I was old enough I used to help him, mostly
in the way of keeping an eye upon the ewes while he was gone home to
rest.  This is what I was doing in a particular month in either the year
four or five--I can't certainly fix which, but it was long before I was
took away from the sheepkeeping to be bound prentice to a trade.  Every
night at that time I was at the fold, about half a mile, or it may be a
little more, from our cottage, and no living thing at all with me but the
ewes and young lambs.  Afeard?  No; I was never afeard of being alone at
these times; for I had been reared in such an out-step place that the
lack o' human beings at night made me less fearful than the sight of 'em.
Directly I saw a man's shape after dark in a lonely place I was
frightened out of my senses.

'One day in that month we were surprised by a visit from my uncle Job,
the sergeant in the Sixty-first foot, then in camp on the downs above
King George's watering-place, several miles to the west yonder.  Uncle
Job dropped in about dusk, and went up with my father to the fold for an
hour or two.  Then he came home, had a drop to drink from the tub of
sperrits that the smugglers kept us in for housing their liquor when
they'd made a run, and for burning 'em off when there was danger.  After
that he stretched himself out on the settle to sleep.  I went to bed: at
one o'clock father came home, and waking me to go and take his place,
according to custom, went to bed himself.  On my way out of the house I
passed Uncle Job on the settle.  He opened his eyes, and upon my telling
him where I was going he said it was a shame that such a youngster as I
should go up there all alone; and when he had fastened up his stock and
waist-belt he set off along with me, taking a drop from the sperrit-tub
in a little flat bottle that stood in the corner-cupboard.

'By and by we drew up to the fold, saw that all was right, and then, to
keep ourselves warm, curled up in a heap of straw that lay inside the
thatched hurdles we had set up to break the stroke of the wind when there
was any.  To-night, however, there was none.  It was one of those very
still nights when, if you stand on the high hills anywhere within two or
three miles of the sea, you can hear the rise and fall of the tide along
the shore, coming and going every few moments like a sort of great snore
of the sleeping world.  Over the lower ground there was a bit of a mist,
but on the hill where we lay the air was clear, and the moon, then in her
last quarter, flung a fairly good light on the grass and scattered straw.

'While we lay there Uncle Job amused me by telling me strange stories of
the wars he had served in and the wounds he had got.  He had already
fought the French in the Low Countries, and hoped to fight 'em again.  His
stories lasted so long that at last I was hardly sure that I was not a
soldier myself, and had seen such service as he told of.  The wonders of
his tales quite bewildered my mind, till I fell asleep and dreamed of
battle, smoke, and flying soldiers, all of a kind with the doings he had
been bringing up to me.

'How long my nap lasted I am not prepared to say.  But some faint sounds
over and above the rustle of the ewes in the straw, the bleat of the
lambs, and the tinkle of the sheep-bell brought me to my waking senses.
Uncle Job was still beside me; but he too had fallen asleep.  I looked
out from the straw, and saw what it was that had aroused me.  Two men, in
boat-cloaks, cocked hats, and swords, stood by the hurdles about twenty
yards off.

'I turned my ear thitherward to catch what they were saying, but though I
heard every word o't, not one did I understand.  They spoke in a tongue
that was not ours--in French, as I afterward found.  But if I could not
gain the meaning of a word, I was shrewd boy enough to find out a deal of
the talkers' business.  By the light o' the moon I could see that one of
'em carried a roll of paper in his hand, while every moment he spoke
quick to his comrade, and pointed right and left with the other hand to
spots along the shore.  There was no doubt that he was explaining to the
second gentleman the shapes and features of the coast.  What happened
soon after made this still clearer to me.

'All this time I had not waked Uncle Job, but now I began to be afeared
that they might light upon us, because uncle breathed so heavily
through's nose.  I put my mouth to his ear and whispered, "Uncle Job."

'"What is it, my boy?" he said, just as if he hadn't been asleep at all.

'"Hush!" says I.  "Two French generals--"

'"French?" says he.

'"Yes," says I.  "Come to see where to land their army!"

'I pointed 'em out; but I could say no more, for the pair were coming at
that moment much nearer to where we lay.  As soon as they got as near as
eight or ten yards, the officer with a roll in his hand stooped down to a
slanting hurdle, unfastened his roll upon it, and spread it out.  Then
suddenly he sprung a dark lantern open on the paper, and showed it to be
a map.

'"What be they looking at?" I whispered to Uncle Job.

'"A chart of the Channel," says the sergeant (knowing about such things).

'The other French officer now stooped likewise, and over the map they had
a long consultation, as they pointed here and there on the paper, and
then hither and thither at places along the shore beneath us.  I noticed
that the manner of one officer was very respectful toward the other, who
seemed much his superior, the second in rank calling him by a sort of
title that I did not know the sense of.  The head one, on the other hand,
was quite familiar with his friend, and more than once clapped him on the
shoulder.

'Uncle Job had watched as well as I, but though the map had been in the
lantern-light, their faces had always been in shade.  But when they rose
from stooping over the chart the light flashed upward, and fell smart
upon one of 'em's features.  No sooner had this happened than Uncle Job
gasped, and sank down as if he'd been in a fit.

'"What is it--what is it, Uncle Job?" said I.

'"O good God!" says he, under the straw.

'"What?" says I.

'"Boney!" he groaned out.

'"Who?" says I.

'"Bonaparty," he said.  "The Corsican ogre.  O that I had got but my new-
flinted firelock, that there man should die!  But I haven't got my new-
flinted firelock, and that there man must live.  So lie low, as you value
your life!"

'I did lie low, as you mid suppose.  But I couldn't help peeping.  And
then I too, lad as I was, knew that it was the face of Bonaparte.  Not
know Boney?  I should think I did know Boney.  I should have known him by
half the light o' that lantern.  If I had seen a picture of his features
once, I had seen it a hundred times.  There was his bullet head, his
short neck, his round yaller cheeks and chin, his gloomy face, and his
great glowing eyes.  He took off his hat to blow himself a bit, and there
was the forelock in the middle of his forehead, as in all the draughts of
him.  In moving, his cloak fell a little open, and I could see for a
moment his white-fronted jacket and one of his epaulets.

'But none of this lasted long.  In a minute he and his general had rolled
up the map, shut the lantern, and turned to go down toward the shore.

'Then Uncle Job came to himself a bit.  "Slipped across in the night-time
to see how to put his men ashore," he said.  "The like o' that man's
coolness eyes will never again see!  Nephew, I must act in this, and
immediate, or England's lost!"

'When they were over the brow, we crope out, and went some little way to
look after them.  Half-way down they were joined by two others, and six
or seven minutes brought them to the shore.  Then, from behind a rock, a
boat came out into the weak moonlight of the Cove, and they jumped in; it
put off instantly, and vanished in a few minutes between the two rocks
that stand at the mouth of the Cove as we all know.  We climmed back to
where we had been before, and I could see, a little way out, a larger
vessel, though still not very large.  The little boat drew up alongside,
was made fast at the stern as I suppose, for the largest sailed away, and
we saw no more.

'My uncle Job told his officers as soon as he got back to camp; but what
they thought of it I never heard--neither did he.  Boney's army never
came, and a good job for me; for the Cove below my father's house was
where he meant to land, as this secret visit showed.  We coast-folk
should have been cut down one and all, and I should not have sat here to
tell this tale.'

We who listened to old Selby that night have been familiar with his
simple grave-stone for these ten years past.  Thanks to the incredulity
of the age his tale has been seldom repeated.  But if anything short of
the direct testimony of his own eyes could persuade an auditor that
Bonaparte had examined these shores for himself with a view to a
practicable landing-place, it would have been Solomon Selby's manner of
narrating the adventure which befell him on the down.
