Hi Rob Hope you are doing well. 
What about getting together for drinks after work sometime next week. 
Also, would you be interested in buying my Houstonian membership. 
The entry fee for new members is $9000, I am ready to sell mine for $6500. 
Its pretty lavish locker-rooms and facilities. 
Email me or call me 713-802-0560 ( cell 832-723-6363) when you get a chance.HarryHey man,Drinks sound good, Wed or Thurs would be good for me. 
I am interested in your Houstonian membership, but are you sure you can sell it to me.
Just received confirmation that your H1B has been approved. 
Fragomen are sending to me the approval notice. 
I should therefore receive this tomorrow. 
We will therefore transfer you as a Hire to UBSW Energy LLC effective March 1st 2002.The limits have been quoted using the 10d-99 measure. 
However, UBS will use all three measures.In Portfolio #2, Gas risk overweighs Power risk. 
NG-R4 correlation is 60%. 
If you reduce your NG position, risk will come down. 
See portfolio 2a with 20,000/day of J-V 02 Gas. 
Also, see my simple square root of some of squares calc in the updated spreadsheet.I will run Rob's scenarios sometime today and send it to you.See tab "Rob" in the attached spreadsheet. 
Same story on Portfolio #2: reducing gas position, lowers VaR. 
I have ran two additional scenarios for Portfolio #2 with 2/3 and 1/2 of the original gas position. 
Let me know if you have questions.To open folders for which you have permissions, point to Open on the File menu, and then click Other User's Folder. 
You must be running Microsoft Outlook to do this.You will also be receiving copies of meeting requests sent to me and will be able to respond to them on my behalf.Hey Rob, sorry if I sounded a little weird on the phone the other night. 
My boyfriend and I were in the middle of a really heavy discussion when you
called. 
He was standing right by me, (upset with me), so it was a little awkward. 
It was great to hear from you and I'd still like to meet you for a
drink sometime after work. 
Take care, Holly[Benson, Robert]  Hey Holly, sorry it has taken me so long to get back to you, I went back to Calgary for 10 days. 
Finally toke a vacation, I'm glad you wrote back, I shouldn't have called on a Friday night. 
I hope every thing worked out with your boyfriend. 
I'd love to get out with you, how's next wed or thurs ? 
Talk to ya later, Rob List of accomplishments for Rob Benson1. 
Made a fast and profitable transition from cash cinergy trader to term PJM trader.
Current P/L is over $67,000,000, budget for the year was set at $15,000,000.
No losing months, worst month was positive $2,700,000.
Very high return on VAR, don't have actual numbers ( sorry ).
Done two customer load following deals, both have turned out to be very profitable.
Exceeded all EOL goals, both number of trades and volume. 
Each month I'm in the top 3 in east power for number of trades and volume.
Have always stayed within my VAR limits
I have become the market for all PJM trades, both on and off peak.
My P/L has come from intra-day trading as well as an underlying fundamental position in both on and off peak. 
P/L did not come from just one big move.
Have always put on positions based on my fundamental view, even if that view differed from others on the desk.
We are in the process of confirming that all traders are set up correctly and ready to trade when the system goes live. 
We need to make sure that your Stack Managers are accessing the correct database. 
In order to do this, we need to know how you access Stack Manager:1) Through Terminal Server (the one that opens up a desktop within a desktop and it actually appears that you have two Start buttons). or
2) By opening the Stack Manager directly from your "native" desktop (stand alone computer).
Please reply to this message with either a corresponding "1" or a "2" in the subject field.If you're not sure which one you have, please contact myself x39673, Teresa Mandola x39807 or Jennifer McQuade x53614 and we'll come by your desk to help you.
Hi, Ginger it's Rob again, just wondering if you had any luck with my last two pay stubs. 
Sorry to bother you but the people looking after my work visa need it by tomorrow.
In the morning could you please call to Omaha and ask who could print out enough copies of the attached presentation for the attendees of the 9:00 meeting and forward this to them
Thanks Audrey! 
Kim asked me to send the attached spreadsheet to you. 
It's my listing of TW's firm contracts where I track ROFR. 
This is a complete list as of 9-17-01 of all long-term contracts (seasonal or longer). 
Any monthly deals may not be included. 
Dennis Lee has a report he runs from CBS of all currently effective contracts and contracts with future effective dates for me to cross-check that I have everything.
The first tab "ROFR Criteria" is a complete list of currently effective contracts including (at the bottom) contracts with future effective dates and the Red Rock Expansion contracts. 
The receipt and delivery areas are noted. 
The tabs following show the subscribed capacity for certain segments of TW's pipe (West of Thoreau, Blanco to Thoreau & Ignacio to Blanco) by month through 2006.Buehler's sick humor!  
I've missed you. 
Linda Ward called me and I had to let her know that Brad is my new "Main Man"!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I have reviewed the La Plata Facilities O&O Agreement. 
Lee, could you please review the same and see if you agree with this assessment?  
It appears to me that the pigging facilties could qualify as either of the following:Special Services. 
This would be subject to prior written consent and agreement between the Operator (TW) and the Operating Committee (TW & NWPLRepresentatives). 
If NWPL agreed, their share of the cost would be in proportion to their ownership interest. 
If we did obtain their approval, future O&M cost attributable to the pigging facilities could be shared among the owners. 
(We've agreed to a flat fee for 2000 through 2003 with a 3.5% escalator starting in 2001.) Addition or Expansion. 
Demonstrate that the pigging will add incremental transmission capacity. 
We have to give notice to NWPL and they have 60 days to participate. 
If they participate, they share in the cost at their ownership interest, but they get a share of the incremental capacity at their ownership interest. 
If they don't indicate a desire to participate in 60 days, we can proceed with the Expansion (without any approval, but also no cost sharing). 
Also, any incremental O&M associated with an expansion cannot be passed on to any owners not participating in such expansion.I think if we went the Special Services route, we would need to justify the need for these facilities to maintain the integrity and efficiency of the facilities at current levels. 
I think we would spend alot of time arguing this with them and in the end they would probably approve it subject to them not incurring any cost. 
(They probably don't have $260,000 ($1.5MM * .174) sitting around in a budget somewhere that they'd like to fork over for these facilities.)  
Rich, what do you think?  
How difficult would it be to demonstrate that these facilities are necessary for maintaining the current operating levels of the facilities?
Recommendation:  To save us the 60 days notice period of an Expansion, I think we should notify them that it's a necessary Special Service and ask for approval (& to pass along their share of the cost), but to be prepared to eat 100% of the costs to obtain their timely approval and proceed with the installation of the facilities. 
In this event we would need to agree on the inclusion of future O&M attributable to these facilities.FYI, their ownership interest is still officially 22.3% since they have not executed the Amendment that has been tendered to them 3 times, first by me and twice by Lynn Blair. 
If	they execute the Amendment that incorporates the 4/1/98 expansion of the facilities, their ownership interest will be 17.4%.
I just wanted to say it was good to see you the other day, though brief =)  Let's get together soon for lunch or something. 
I'm missing my Bob time
I was trying to respond to your message about the IOS meeting Friday & I lost it.I will not be able to be at the meeting. 
I am not in the office on Friday. 
Please let me know if it will be rescheduled or when we can meet to discuss.I believe what Lisa (Sawyer?) was referring to is the termination of TW's shared cost surcharge effective October 31, 2001. 
I don't think there would be any system changes required. 
Typically, TW's rates are entered with a start and end date and (if this is correct) the surcharge should have an end date of 10/31/2001 and there wouldn't be anything else to do. 
If it's not entered that way, an end date could be entered now (whether at the surcharge level or at the contract level - the surcharge applies to just 14 firm contracts) and that should take care of it.
Elizabeth,  Is this correct?  
I know you're on a project, please let me know if you can check this or who can.
Lisa brought up a TW change effective Nov 1. 
It involves eliminating a turnback surcharge. 
I have no other information, but you might check with the business folks for any system changes required.Yes, I set it up with Ken & Dan. 
We had a good discussion. 
I'm going up for the weekly Imbalance meeting today to discuss some things with Darrell and Richard (Dan will be there). 
Tracy & I are also meeting with Dan & John on Thursday to try to "diagram" some of the accounting process with imbalances, linepack & fuel (LOOK OUT!). 
When we get the explanation organized, we will be presenting it to all y'all =)I hope you had a nice weekend in San Antonio. 
I know the weather was wonderful. 
Hope Hershal is doing better.It loods good!  
Thank you so much. 
I'll let you know if we need anything else after Steve looks at the graphs/charts.
Per our conference call today, here are some ideas to get TW Settlement Value.1.	SoCal to commit to TW to let us schedule transport at the SoCal/Topock (South Needles) delivery point.
2.	SoCal to turnback 20,000 to 25,000/d of receipt capacity from the WTX Pool, at no cost to TW (SoCal continues to pay for it).
3.	TW has been scheduling PG&E's payback to SoCal at SoCal/Topock to help PG&E and SoCal. 
SoCal to schedule this as transport from PG&E/Topock (as a RP) to SoCal/Topock (DP) and pay TW transport fee.
4.	SoCal to agree (in writing) to dedicate to TW the incremental 50,000/d at Needles becoming available Jan, 2002 until Red Rock Expansion in-service.
5.	SoCal to amend their OBA to dollar-valued (from volumetric) and cash-out their existing OBA with TW (at TW's index value).
6.	SoCal to sell storage to TW.
7.	SoCal to purchase incremental Thoreau to West of Thoreau capacity from TW.
8.	Extension of SoCal's mainline &/or San Juan lateral contracts. 
Or early notice of termination or early notice of ROFR trigger (so that we would have the opportunity to remarket it).
It has been a tough couple of months and I know that each of you have worked hard. 
I appreciate your time and commitment and hoped to something for the staff but, due to the company's dire situation, it is not possible. 
Please join me for a group lunch at Little Pappasito's on Thursday, December 20th at 11:30. 
As much as I would like to treat the group, everyone would be responsible for their meal.
Please RSVP to Julie Armstrong at x33597. 
Hope you can attend. 
Thanks.
The only thing I have to add, if this is our premise, Williams Field Services is not an "owner" of the Blanco Hub. 
Only PNM, NWPL and Transwestern are owners and should be the only parties that can transport gas across the hub header system without a fee (because they are in effect transporting on their own pipeline). 
I'm wondering if it's appropriate for WFS to have a "hub" agreement, if the purpose is for the Operator (TW) to be able identify transactions scheduled across the hub on the owners' capacity. 
The only thing I have to add, if this is our premise, Williams Field Services is not an "owner" of the Blanco Hub. 
Only PNM, NWPL and Transwestern are owners and should be the only parties that can transport gas across the hub header system without a fee (because they are in effect transporting on their own pipeline). 
I'm wondering if it's appropriate for WFS to have a "hub" agreement, if the purpose is for the Operator (TW) to be able identify transactions scheduled across the hub on the owners' capacity. 
I wanted to give Causey a heads up on our 2nd current estimate especially the major variance in PGE.
I understand we narrowed the variance but have not received infor on how.
Could you just have a one page schedule which lists for ETS, EW, PGE, Clean Fuels and Wessex the 3rd quarter forecast per the 2nd current estimate versus the last current estimate or plan and the 3rd quarter of last year with a variance explanation?
As mentioned earlier we will start working the Top section - Payroll (Salary & wages, benefits, and taxes) on 8/1/01.
As regards the report specifications for the remaining non-payroll section of the report further review and modifications will be forthcoming based on design analysis to be done by Braden and myself.
Please review the specs with respect to all the sections, cost elements & formulas indicated and let us have your observations.
If you have any questions please let me know.
You asked for it, and we delivered!  
ClickAtHome announces the addition of 4 new Internet Service Providers!
Introducing:  Sprint Broadband Direct, a new high-speed Internet solution based on an innovative technology called "fixed wireless", is now available for eligible Enron employees in 13 cities nationwide!
Houston employees:  Sprint Broadband Direct will be in the Enron Building Lobby on Tuesday, July 31 and Wednesday, August 1 from 10am-2pm.
Get your questions answered regarding special ClickAtHome pricing, service, availability, or anything else!  ClickAtHome Reps will also be there to answer any program questions you may have.
For the North Houston area, Cox Cable and Charter Cable have been added.
And in Orlando, Florida, Time Warner's Roadrunner is now available through ClickAtHome!
Ready to place your order, or have questions regarding availability and pricing?
Visit http://clickathome.enron.com !
Stay tuned for more Internet Service partners this fall- ClickAtHome will continue to provide eligible Enron employees with high-speed Internet Service!
ClickAtHome helps you Get Innovative at Home!
If you are currently using another ClickAtHome Internet Service Provider and would like to switch, you may do so at any time.
You are responsible for any termination fees associated with cancellation.
ClickAtHome will subsidize only one provider per eligible employee.
For further information regarding switching providers: 
If you'd rather not receive email updates from Gap, you can 
delete your name from our email list by clicking here:
http://gap.m0.net/m/u/g.asp?e=tracy.geaccone%40enron.com
* 15% offer is good for one transaction only.
Offer valid through 
August 11, 2001, at 11:59 p.m., PT.
$50 amount applies to merchandise only.
GiftCard purchases, packaging, taxes, and shipping & handling 
does not count toward the qualifying amount.
Not valid for cash.
No adjustments on previous purchases.
Offer is not transferable without consent by Gap.
Not valid at Gap Outlet stores.
Cannot be combined with any other offers.
employees are not eligible for this offer.
GapCard double points offer applies to all GapCard purchases 
at Gap stores, gap.com, and 1.800.GAP.STYLE (in the US only).
subject to credit approval by Monogram Credit Card Bank of Georgia.
This year's Enron United Way Campaign kicked off last week with Leadership Giving.
The company-wide campaign along with Week of Caring kicks off on August 6.
ETS' Day of Caring is on August 9 at the Harboch Ripley Center in southeast Houston.
Please contact Kimberly Nelson to volunteer for a morning or afternoon shift at ETS' Day of Caring.
To celebrate a successful Campaign and Week of Caring, an employee appreciation lunch will be held on Friday, August 10, at 11:00 am at Antioch Park across the street from the Enron building.
In correlation with this year's United Way campaign theme, "Building Houston's Future," and in the true spirit of Enron, there will be a building competition among the business units at the lunch.
Each business unit will form a team and build something with building blocks at the August 10 appreciation event.
Rod Hayslett, Phil Lowry and I will lead Team ETS.
To form the rest of Team ETS, we thought it would be fun to have a little contest.
Here's the contest:  Correctly answer all of the questions in the link below by Wednesday, August 1, at 5pm, and your name will be entered into a drawing.
NO late entries will be accepted.
We'll draw 7 names from the entries received and if your name is drawn, you will be an official member of Team ETS and help build the most incredible structure imaginable with me, Rod and Phil.
We'll announce the lucky winners on Thursday, August 2.
At the August 10 celebration, all of the business unit building block structures will be built and judged based on Enron's attributes - smart, innovative, bold, ambitious, and united.
Ken Lay will host the Applause Meter and the business unit with the greatest amount of applause will win.
We need all of our ETS employees outside cheering on Team ETS.
Free lunch is included in the deal as well.
Let's have some fun with this!  
With your help, Enron and United Way will be successful at Building Houston's Future.
Steve Harris has asked for a CIAC for 50% of TW's construction costs on the Gray County interconnect.
I assume that this must be posted on the bulletin board the same as any other CIAC.
Is this correct?  
Also, the economics are based on NNG revenues covering both TW's and NNG's capital expenditure.
For recovery purposes wouldn't it be better for NNG to reimburse TW 100% of its costs?  
Other wise isn't there a miss-match in that the volumes will be reflected in NNG's rate design with 50% of the cost of service residing on TW's books?  
Attached is the open season and binding bid package for the Sun Devil Pipeline Project.
We will meet in Steve Harris' office on Thurs 8/2 at 10:30am to get a consensous on the pitch strategy.
We should also have a good idea on rates as well.
I hope you can join us.
If not, please get with me later in the day with any questions or concerns.
Our goal is to release this to the media for publication Friday 8/3.
Please find attached updated files.
Page 8 for each company includes cash flow items which aren't  a part of earnings, but would still be needed provided balance sheet / cash flow reports.
All capex is included in Operations at this time until further breakout is made available.
I am pleased to announce that Jana Domke has accepted the position of Director, Compensation for Enron Transportation Services, effective August 1, 2001.
Jana started with Enron in May, 2000 and most recently has been Director of Compensation & Benefits for Enron Wind.
Prior to joining Enron, Jana was a Practice Leader with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Director, International Compensation & Benefits for Smith International.
Jana has 19 years of experience in both domestic and international compensation and benefits.
Jana received her M.B.A.
from the University of Houston.
She also has a Bachelors Degree from U of H in Organizational Behavior & Management.
Jana can be reached at (713) 853-6329 and her office location is EB1156.
The ETS Compensation staff, including Jana's direct reports, can be viewed on the attached organization chart.
Please join me in welcoming Jana to the ETS team.
You know, I am just too busy to deal with the tone of your messages right now.
Give me a contact at AA and as soon as I finish my budget and pricing projects I will call them directly.
Before I can do anything, I need the Enron company number for EGP fuels.
I do know that our actuary has never broken out the expense or PBO for this company.
Until I know what the company number is we won't know which ETS group it was consolidated within.
Probably the Services Group, but maybe Corp.
Once we know that then either the ETS accounting or corp.
accounting can look into the actual intercompany allocations if any.
Tracy, can you do me a favor and look into how you all do the accounting for this company and I'll try to give you a call later this week.
(Tracy, I may be able to locate the 2000 and possibly the 2001 allocation sheets but I am  not comfortable that we will still have the budget information for 1998 and 1999.
In addition, the true-ups definately do not go to this level.)
Arthur Anderson is in the process of completing the preparation of audited financials for EGP Fuels Company.
Included with these financials are footnote disclosures.
Please provide the following information to be included with these financials.
1)  Total charges from Enron Corp for EGP Fuels employee benefit plans for 1998, 1999, and 2000.
(I would think that the books of EGP should show the actual charges.
Our reserve records only provide a total distribution allocation.
This will have to come from accounting.)
2)  EGP Fuels' Enron Retirement Plan pension costs for 1998, 1999, and 2000.
(As stated, this is not prepared at the EGP level.
The best we can do here is to work with the actuary to do an estimate of the costs but this will likely require a historical pull of information which you may or may not have available.
I'll need to speak with AA&CO directly to determine best course of action.)
3)  EGP Fuels' Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation (APBO) for benefit plans other than pensions net periodic postretirement benefit costs for 1998,1999, and 2000.
Please note that Sandy and I did talk but I was left with the expectation that I would still receive some type of response, even if that response was merely that 
the information is not available.
Also, it was suggested that I try contacting You, Mikie and Sandy for this information but I did not receive a response from 
any of you without additional proding.
And, those responses left me believing that I would hear more from you, which I did not.
Lastly, I did mention that if
necessary we could look at using Financial Accounting for this information but this is not desirable since this method will result in fragmented and less accurate information.
Also, Arthur Andersen has indicated that this is not the preferred method of providing this information.
Based on the email which follows below I will assume that Financial Accounting is my only recourse and that You will assist in convincing Arthur Andersen
that this is the only alternative available to meet their timing requirements.
Sandy told me she talked with you last week in the elevator lobby.
Just so you know I am not ignoring you I have literally worked 4 weeks straight without a day off and with an average of 14 hour days!  
I can not do this until my budgets and medical pricing are complete.
If you need it immediately, then you will need to do what Sandy talked with you about last week and that is to get with Financial Accounting.
There is no way I can look at this until later this week.
Arthur Andersen has requested benefits information necessary to complete audited financials that are required to complete Project Timber (the sale of the MTBE assets to EOTT).
The following requests have not been acknowledged and remain unanswered.
Please let me know who I should contact for this information.
Arthur Andersen has since also requested this information for the 6 months ending June 30, 2000 and June 30, 2001.
Any guidance you can provide is greatly appreciated.
I have not heard back on if you have corrected your reports.
Again I want to clarify that I am not using gross/net reports to prove to you that R112386 has a balance of only $64,720.92, I am using SAP cost center reports.
The only difference between the gross/ret report and the R cost centers is a $196.48 direct charge for computer expense to a FAR order.
This difference is detailed in the spreadsheet I have provided.
Are you still sure my R cost centers are over budget by $26,000?  They sure look under-budget by $23,000 to me.
Please let me know as I would like to submit an expense report.
It's that time of year when all the school functions set out to raise funds for all their needs, and all of us are inundated with school fundraisers. 
Thank Goodness, this is my last year of fundraising efforts for my children!!
My daughter, Michelle, is a High School Senior this year and is a 4th year member of the Stratford High School Spartanaires (Drill Team). 
She has some pretty tall goals to achieve, and we both would really appreciate any business you can give us!
We have a very large selection of personalized (or not) Christmas and Holiday Cards for both personal and business use. 
Your order will be shipped directly to you from the company.
We also have a great selection of personalized stationary (great for Holiday Gifts!). 
These are also shipped directly to you or any address you choose.
In addition, we have a selection of Holiday gift ideas including wrapping paper, bows, candles, picture frames, Holiday Tins with cookies, candy, etc. and a variety of other Holiday fare. 
I will deliver the items in this catalog to you at work.
We will be fundraising from now through October 29. 
Michelle will be turning orders in each week on Tuesday morning, so order early to get your items early. 
Michelle has to turn in her last order on Tuesday
Just wanted to follow up on one thing from our conversation on Friday. 
In Sept, you need the 3rd current estimate, but are ok with us providing it to you the week of the 17th, rather than the 13th. 
The trip was very helpful for me as well. 
I learned a lot from Terry the day before. 
The decision to proceed further will not be my decision, but I will
prepare an internal analysis, along three main points. 
In preparing this internal analysis, it would be helpful to know your (Colorado's) position on the following issues:
ASSETS/PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (PSA)
Our original position related to the characterization of our purchase as
the purchase of real property, rather than TPP. 
Regarding your acquiescence of the pipeline from the original jeopardy assessment under this argument, thanks that is a big chunk of the original assessment.
My tentative concern under this argument is that foundation, conduit, wires, pipe and valves remain on the schedule. 
The compressor might be a bit more difficult to argue under this position.
Further, Friday, I submitted a copy of the "Operating and Sales Agreement". 
This agreement will further support my position that the PSA was not a purchase of TPP, but was the purchase of a 77% equity
interest or right to the pipeline's capacity. 
If the operating agreement constituted the entirety of the writing accompanying the transfer of cash from Enron to Northwest Pipeline Corp., I might agree. 
But, the purchase agreement lists assets acquired for cash.
COMPRESSOR FUEL/DOMESTIC FUEL
I'll get the Compressor and domestic consumption numbers soon, and the price will be determined a little later. 
There are separate meters for measuring Compressor and Domestic fuel consumption. 
Friday, I submitted my tax exempt position for Compressor Fuel consumed for Gas Services (SEE industrial use.doc BELOW).
I don't believe that the statute and regulation support that position.
Transporting gas would have to qualify as providing gas or electric service to qualify for the exemption. 
I don't believe it does. 
I definitely need more research on this.
PENALTY & INTEREST
I will be requesting a waiver of penalty and interest on any assessment.
The disposition of penalty and interest will be resolved at a level above the auditor level.
Dan
Good morning. 
Thanks for the tour of the La Plata Facility. 
It was very helpful. 
I'll remove the $4,803,629 for the 'pipe 30" x .325' from the proposed taxable amount. 
Everything else I'll keep as previously
determined
unless I receive additional information from you.
Also, I look forward to receiving the gas consumed figures for both domestic
use, which I understand is taxable, and the compressor use which remains unagreed. 
If you have a proposal for the valuation of the gas consumed, that would be helpful also. 
Thanks again for the tour and your assistance in completing the audit. 
John Petersen, 303-355-0400 x 622.
Attached is the revised calendar for the completion of the 2002 Plan. 
As you will note, the dates have been moved up approximately 2 weeks in most cases. 
This is a result of the recent management changes and executive availability.
A couple of notes on the dates:
-Please note that dates for assessments apply to ALL BUSINESS UNITS who will be senders of costs.
-The October 18th due date for the Presentation Pages: I will provide more information at a later date on this.
-The dates highlighted in yellow are not 2002 Plan related, but merely a reminder of other significant items that will be occurring in this time frame.
Also included in the file FYI is the PROPOSED schedule for the Plan/Executive Business Reviews with the Office of the Chairman. 
These are still subject to change. 
Rick Causey's office (Sharron Westbrook) is coordinating the schedules of the applicable attendees. 
I will let you know when these are final.
Additionally, the Plan will be submitted to Corporate in the traditional format, Excel files. 
We will be sending the templates out on (or by) September 20, as reflected in the revised calendar. 
However, our strategy is still to enter 2002 with the full plan ( I/S, B/S, Cash Flow) loaded into Adaytum and to utilize Adaytum going forward from that point. 
Involved Employees
Par "Fore" Pets Golf Tournament
It's Greek Festival Time
Dragon Boat Racing on Buffalo Bayou
Beginner Ballroom Dance Lessons
Volunteer Opportunities
Junior Achievement Volunteer Opportunities
Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Race for the Cure
Enron Running Club
CROSSROADS: Mentor a Troubled Child Brown Bag
City Wide Clubs 23rd Annual Thanksgiving Feast
Wellness
September "Fall Fiesta" at the Body Shop Fitness Center
Fall 2001 Fashion Show and Luncheon
Bella Rinova Spa at the Downtown Club (Met)
Blood Drive
WorkLife
Corporate Hands Child Care Nomination
In addition, Enron in Action is available through a channel on my.home.enron.com. 
To add this channel to your set-up click on the channels link at the top of the screen and under announcements check the Enron in Action box. 
If you wish to add an announcement to Enron in Action, please fill out the attached form below and submit it to mailto:eia@enron.com no later than 12 PM Thursday each week.
Tracy, I called the auditor last week, following our conversation. 
The auditor has not returned my call. 
Field work is complete and no formal assessment has been issued. 
I have unresolved issues which the auditor must consider before issuing the assessment. 
In Summarizing our conversation last week:
1)  I have not seen a preliminary assessment, which I hoped would be coming in October.
2)  During the auditor's field audit, the auditor proposed to assess tax on the following issues:
a)  Assets Purchase $500,000 in Tax, Penalty & Interest. 
I might protest almost all assessed 
amounts for this category.
b)  Expenses (Compressor Fuel) Estimate $350,000 for audit Period. 
Issues not resolved:
i)    My position is that no tax is due, except for domestic fuel consumption.
ii)   If "Compressor Fuel" is taxable, what is the "Purchase Price".
iii)  Is the 2% local tax applicable to "Compressor Fuel"?
iv)   Should tax be calculated prospectively, rather than retroactively?
v)    If assessed, Transwestern requests that the current regulation be revised to 
reflect a change for this issue (Tariff may accommodate a pass through without
a rate case?).
I will provide a copy of the assessment for your records and subsequent consideration, when available. 
The auditor was promoted during my audit and is transition. 
Considering this transition and my challenges, response time is unpredictable.
You are scheduled to attend the 2nd Annual Global Accounting Leadership Offsite Thursday and Friday, September 20 and 21, in Galveston, Texas.
Rick Causey has reserved one hour of this conference for an "Open Forum," at which we plan to discuss whatever you, the Global Accounting Leadership, wish to discuss.
In order to get an idea of what the topics of interest are, as well as to do any preliminary fact-finding which may be possible, please reply to this eMail and submit the topic(s) you would like to see discussed. 
I will compile the list and forward to Rick without names associated. 
If for any reason you are concerned about anonymity, you may also send a note via interoffice mail (EB 1769) or other confidential means.
Please let me know if you have any questions. 
Thanks!
Dear Colleagues,
We know you have many questions about your new benefits plan, payroll issues and other changes that will occur over the next few weeks. 
Human Resources and Communications are preparing a thorough Q&A, which we will send to you tomorrow and will regularly update as more information is available. 
Meanwhile, please read the announcement below from Security about how you can obtain a new UBS Warburg access card that will allow you to enter our new office space after Friday.
I am confident that you share my enthusiasm about our new opportunity. 
We look forward to working along side each of you in the coming days.
David Oxley
Human Resources
Access Cards
There will be a two-day transition for the new UBS Warburg access cards. 
Beginning Monday, February 11, access to the 5th and 6th floors of Enron Center South will require these new cards. 
UBS Warburg access cards can be picked up from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
at the reception area on the 5th floor of Enron Center South on Thursday, February 7th ; Friday, February 8th ; and Monday, February 11. 
Enron Security will produce new access cards with existing photographs, then simultaneously issue the new and collect the old cards. 
Employees without UBS Warburg cards will be allowed into the Enron Center South building on Monday but will have to collect their new cards as soon as possible to gain access to the 5th and 6th floors.
Employees who fail to collect their new cards by 7 p.m. 
Monday will be required to contact Enron Security's general information number at 713-853-5360 to arrange to pick them up.
There will be security staff available at the pick up point on ECS 5 to help with any problems you might have.
It is suggested employees wear their access cards at all times while on the premise.
Accessible Areas - The new cards will allow UBS-W employees to enter:
Body Shop, Enron Center North Plaza and therefore access the Credit Union
Under the terms of the various agreements among certain Enron entities and UBS AG, certain Enron data and documents may be provided to UBS. 
To ensure compliance with those agreements, Enron's document retention policy, as well as directives of various investigative agencies, the attached protocol regarding the process for migration of any information or data to UBS has been developed.
Please review the protocol carefully. 
Then, complete the attached Certification and return it, with attachments, to Linda Guinn at EB 3829a no later than February 11, 2002.
Questions about this matter may be directed to Michelle Cash at (713) 853-6401 or Francisco Pinto-Leite at (713) 345-7942 .
Protocol Document and Data Copy Instructions
In order for UBS Warburg to timely process your paycheck, I am requesting that all employee's accepting offers return any outstanding forms to my new desk location at  05852 on the 5th floor of ECS (Look for the Hamburg Flag) by noon this Friday  2/01/02. 
This will prevent any benefit deductions from having to be "Double Deducted" on future checks. 
Please attach a deposit slip or voided check stub to your direct deposit form. 
Attached below are the forms needed for payroll/benefits, in case you did not turn these in at Orientation. 
Lastly, please verify that your EHRonline home address is showing your current home address because all live checks will be mailed to your home residence. 
Location: ECS 06980
Orientation will be split into two sessions and divided by alpha-order. 
Sessions will run 10am-12 pm and 2pm- 4 pm.
We encourage all of you to attend your designated session as valuable information will be presented, and you will have the opportunity to get answers to your questions.
You can speed things up tommorrow by filing in the attached forms - alternatively you can complete them there
10am Session   Letters A- K
2pm Session Letters L-Z
Hi TJ and Lisa,  
Happy 2002!!  
I hope this email finds you well. 
This brief note is to inform you that I will be returning to Harvard - where I received my doctorate in Applied Mathematics.
I have accepted a job offer from the Harvard Management Company - which manages Harvard's endowment of $20 billion (and still counting).
If you are ever in the Boston area, please do look me up. 
Also, will you please forward this email onto the power group so that some of my other friends will know how to get in touch with me in the future.
Best regards to you and yours in 2002,
Iris Marie Mack, MBA/PhD
P.S.:  During my first couple of months in Boston I will be staying in corporate housing. 
Therefore the best way to reach me is via email:  irismmack@hotmail.com . 
Thanks!!!
Join the world's largest e-mail service with MSN Hotmail. 
Click Here 
Dynegy-Enron deal potential 'staggering'
Energy Insight News for Tuesday, November 13, 2001
If the deal between Enron and Dynegy is successfully executed, it "should
yield the most widely recognized, respected and downright credible
wholesale/retail energy merchant in the world," said James Yannello and
Ronald Barone, analysts with UBS Warburg, in a research note Monday.
Troubled energy giant Enron Corp. agreed late Friday to be taken over by smaller rival Dynegy Inc. 
in a $7.8 billion stock swap, with assumption of at least $12 billion of Enron debt. 
The deal includes an immediate infusion of $1.5 billion from Dynegy's 26.6% owner ChevronTexaco to shore up Enron's
cash-strained trading operations, with another $1 billion of new equity from ChevronTexaco when the merger closes.
"We view both the near and long-term upside potential of this deal as staggering," said the UBS Warburg analysts, citing the combination of
"Enron's unsurpassed global wholesale network franchise with that of Dynegy's; fully leveraging the two's online capabilities; continuing the
aggressive growth of what will likely become Dynegy Energy Services; disposing of all non-core assets; and managing this global powerhouse with Dynegy's above-board culture based on teamwork, strict values and honesty."
Even though it remains positive about this merger, UBS Warburg hasn't underestimated the "enormous challenge at hand. 
In the near-term, Enron must remain highly liquid, investment grade and its employees must remain focused on keeping its core wholesale/retail franchises up and running. 
Also, early indications are that the ratings agencies have blessed the plan."
Dynegy will offer 0.2685 of its shares for each Enron share, giving Dynegy holders 64% of the combined company. 
At Dynegy's closing price Friday of $38.76/share, that equates to $10.41/share for Enron, which has seen its
stock plummet from more than $89 a year ago to a recent low of $7 before rebounding on Dynegy bailout rumors. 
Enron closed at $8.63/share Nov. 
Dynegy Calls SEC's Probe of Enron `Financial Noise'
Chairman Chuck Watson said he's convinced Enron Corp.'s trading operations are sound and described disclosures about affiliated partnerships that helped drive Enron's stock down 67 percent in three weeks as ``financial noise.'' 
Dynegy agreed Friday to buy Enron for at least $23 billion, including at least $8 billion in stock and $15 billion in assumed debt. 
Dynegy shares rose as much as 16 percent today. 
Enron rose as much as 20 percent. 
In an interview after the merger announcement, Watson and Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay discussed how the Houston-based companies reached agreement less than three weeks after Enron's shares began plunging. 
``All the financial noise about the partnerships, maybe it has damaged the Enron brand a bit,'' Watson said. 
``But I'll tell you what it hasn't impacted, and that's the high regard that the industry places on'' Enron's trading business, he said. 
Enron last week restated earnings for four years to include losses from three affiliated partnerships, reducing earnings by $586 million. 
Six employees, out of Enron's 20,000, may have improperly benefited from the partnerships, Lay said. 
``I'm sorry those six people seem to have gone somewhat over the edge in their dealings or transactions, but you can't be absolutely protected from that in any business,'' he said. 
Lost Effectiveness 
Lay didn't specify which six people he was referring to. 
He removed Andrew Fastow, who helped set up and ran many of the affiliated partnerships, as chief financial officer on Oct. 
24. 
An Enron securities filing says Fastow made more than $30 million off two of the partnerships. 
Fastow ``had lost his effectiveness because of all the press coverage'' on the affiliates, Lay said. 
Treasurer Ben Glisan and Kristina Mordaunt, a managing director and a corporate counsel for an Enron division, also were fired, Enron said in a corporate filing on Thursday. 
Former employees Michael Kopper, Kathy Lynn and Anne Yeager were in a position to profit from partnerships, the filing said. 
``You trust people, you accept their representations and proposals,'' Lay said. 
``Sometimes when you do that, you get surprised and disappointed.'' 
Both executives said they expect antitrust regulators to approve the merger because the two companies own different types of assets and won't dominate any market. 
``There really isn't anything that lays on top of each other,'' Watson said Friday night. 
``We're not in the pipeline business and they are. 
We're in the generation business, and they're really not.'' 
Dynegy shares rose 6.2 percent on Friday after terms of the Enron purchase leaked to the press. 
Watson expects the acquisition to add 90 cents to 95 cents a share, or 35 percent, to Dynegy's 2002 earnings. 
Enron is selling for $10.41 a share, one-fifth the average price over the past 12 months. 
Enron stock climbed 97 cents, or 11 percent, to $9.60 in late morning trading. 
Earlier, they touched $10.38. 
Dynegy rose $4.54, or 12 percent, to $43.30 after touching $45. 
Cash Crunch 
The rapid decline of Enron threatened to bankrupt the company and disrupt energy markets. 
Enron handles an estimated one-quarter of U.S. 
electricity and natural-gas trades. 
A falling credit rating made it difficult for the company to raise capital needed to back trades. 
As part of the purchase, ChevronTexaco Corp., which owns 26 percent of Dynegy, agreed to provide Enron with $2.5 billion. 
``What we found when looked under the hood is that the core of Enron was still there and working as well as ever,'' Watson said. 
``That business was pristine and had nothing to do with the partnerships.'' 
Dynegy began taking steps toward the acquisition in late October, when Watson called Lay to offer assistance with Enron's growing financial crisis, the two men said. 
That led to a Saturday morning meeting in Lay's kitchen. 
``He even made me a breakfast roll,'' Watson said. 
``He didn't eat it,'' Lay said. 
Lay said he won't be an active manager in the new company. 
Watson said Friday that he and Lay hadn't discussed a severance package. 
As head of Enron, Lay had refocused the Houston operator of U.S. 
natural-gas pipelines on trading and international expansion, boosting reported revenue 20-fold since 1995 to $100.8 billion last year. 
He said he doesn't regret the strategy. 
``Clearly, Enron has gotten involved in business that hasn't turned out well,'' Lay said, pointing to money-losers Azurix Inc., created to supply water and build related projects around the world, and NewPower Holdings Inc., a seller of electricity to homes and small businesses. 
``But you have to keep in mind, too, that 12 years ago we weren't in the wholesale merchant (trading) business. 
Today that's an incredibly valuable franchise.'' 
The trading business, which accounts for about 97 percent of Enron's revenue, buys electricity, gas and other commodities from producers and sells them to end users such as utilities and industrial customers. 
It also advises big business customers on energy use and sells them gas and electricity. 
Reassessing Steel, Lumber 
Watson said the new company will keep trading coal, gas, power and petroleum products, and plans to expand by buying assets and using them to develop trading. 
``We'll just have to reassess over time whether we stay in'' trading of steel, lumber and other non-energy commodities, he said. 
Enron wants to shed its 65 percent stake in Dabhol Power Co. 
in India, which is owed $64 million in overdue bills from a state government agency that has refused to pay the power prices Enron was promised in contracts. 
``We have strong legal remedies and we're heading down the path toward arbitration, but we'd still very much like to work out a settlement with the government,'' Lay said. 
Potential buyers have balked at Enron's $1 billion asking price for Dabhol. 
Neither man would comment on whether Dynegy plans to cut jobs after the merger, or what will happen to the naming rights to Enron Field. 
The Major League baseball stadium is home to the Houston Astros, and Enron paid $100 million to have its name on the ballpark. 
``The name of the company is now Dynegy,'' Watson said. 
Dynegy's acquisition requires approval from U.S. 
securities, antitrust and energy regulators. 
Watson expects soon to share details of the new Dynegy with regulators from the European Union and U.K., where Enron operates a trading desk and owns a water company and two power plants. 
``I don't know if we are required to do so, but we will talk to them anyway,'' Watson said. 
``We don't think there are going to be any problems,'' Lay said. 
Dynegy sees no more nasty surprises from Enron.
By Andrew Kelly
11/12/2001 
Reuters English News Service
HOUSTON, Nov 12 (Reuters) - Dynegy Inc. 
said on Monday does not foresee any damaging disclosures from Enron Corp., slammed by news of murky off-balance sheet transactions, that could derail its planned takeover of the beleaguered energy trading giant. 
However, Dynegy said it can drop its $9 billion offer if more bad news emerges, or if pending lawsuits against Enron lead to more than $3.5 billion in costs.
Dynegy also expressed confidence the takeover announced on Friday, will win U.S. 
regulatory approval. 
"I really have a good deal of confidence, but not an absolute guarantee, that we are going to be fine here," said Dynegy Chief Executive Officer Chuck Watson, when pressed about the possibility of further troubling disclosures by Enron. 
Watson said Dynegy had run the deal through worst-case scenarios and concluded that it made good business sense. 
Investors apparently agreed, bidding up Dynegy shares $5.55, or 14.3 percent, to close at $44.31 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Enron shares gained 61 cents, to 7.1 percent, to $9.24. 
The deal valued Enron stock at $10.41. 
Enron agreed to a Dynegy buyout after it was overwhelmed by a series of problems, including a U.S. 
regulatory probe into the off-balance sheet dealings, a $1.2 billion cut in shareholder equity and damaging credit rating downgrades. 
Watson has cause for concern about new disclosures from Enron, which last Thursday said an internal probe showed its earnings had been overstated by some $600 million since 1997. 
In a conference call with analysts on Monday, Dynegy executives emphasized their confidence in the future of the combined company, including annual projected earnings-per-share growth of 15 percent to 20 percent over the next three years. 
But they also fielded a barrage of questions about how well Dynegy has insulated itself against further surprises of the kind that had slashed Enron's market value last week to barely one-tenth the almost $80 billion it was valued in August 2000. 
DYNEGY DOUBTS HUGE LIABILITIES 
To ensure against unpleasant disclosures, Dynegy wrote so-called material adverse change clauses into the deal, allowing it to walk away from Enron if there is serious deterioration of its businesses or assets. 
In particular, Dynegy can turn its back on the deal if pending litigation against Enron - including a stack of lawsuits filed by angry investors who have lost a fortune - leads to costs of more than $3.5 billion. 
Chief Financial Officer Rob Doty said it was highly unlikely that this threshold would be reached, even if a "very substantial" settlement was reached in the stockholder suits. 
Commerzbank Securities analyst Andre Meade said he was not yet convinced that the stream of bad news from Enron was over. 
"I think Dynegy is making a big bet that they can successfully clean up the problems that Enron has had," he said. 
But UBS Warburg analyst Jay Yannello said after hearing management discuss the deal, he was reassured it could address tough questions - a breath of fresh air after Enron's tight-lipped response to investors. 
Some analysts have said the deal could be thwarted by regulators because of concerns that Dynegy would be too powerful after merging with Enron, currently North America's biggest buyer and seller of both natural gas and electricity. 
Watson said Dynegy would have to work hard to explain the deal to regulators, led by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, but does not doubt it will eventually pass muster. 
"We really are confident that up and down the line we are going to be able to convince them that this is really in the best interest of the energy industry as well as these two respective companies," he said. 
GAS PIPELINE OPTION, BREAK-UP FEES 
Dynegy executives also said there would be no complicated financing arrangements of the kind that triggered Enron's downfall, and that the new Dynegy will be able to keep top Enron executives and traders from defecting to rival firms. 
Enron officials declined to comment on reports that its banks J.P. 
Morgan and Citigroup were considering pumping an extra $500 million of capital in to Enron. 
Oil company ChevronTexaco Inc., a major Dynegy stockholder, has already agreed to inject $1.5 billion into Enron immediately to keep it afloat while the merger is completed, which Dynegy expects to take six to nine months. 
If Enron backs out of the deal to accept a higher offer, it would have to pay a $350 million breakup fee to Dyegy. 
And if the deal breaks down for any reason, Dynegy would be allowed to exercise an option to acquire Enron's Northern Natural Gas pipeline subsidiary.
Dynegy and Enron Shares Get a Boost As Acquisition Plan is Met With Optimism
By John R. Emshwiller 11/13/2001
The Wall Street Journal
The shares of Enron Corp. and Dynegy Inc. 
both rose in heavy trading as investors began trying to digest the possible risks and rewards of Dynegy's plan to acquire Enron in a stock swap with a current value of $10.12 billion. 
In calls and meetings with analysts yesterday, Dynegy Chairman Chuck Watson and Enron Chairman Kenneth Lay continued talking up the deal that was announced late Friday. 
"We are confident this is good strategically and financially for Dynegy and Enron," said Mr. Watson, who will serve as chairman and chief executive of the combined entity, to be called Dynegy Inc.
While the proposed combination faces months of review by government agencies and gives Dynegy possible opportunities to cancel the deal, investors' initial reaction to the merger announcement was positive. 
As of 4 p.m. 
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Dynegy shares were at $44.31, up $5.55, or 14%. 
Also on the Big Board, Enron was at $9.24, up 7.1%, or 61 cents. 
Both companies were among the most actively traded issues. 
Under terms of the proposed acquisition, Dynegy would give 0.2685 of its shares for each Enron share. 
Based on Dynegy's stock price yesterday , this formula values Enron stock at $11.90 each. 
Enron has about 850 million shares outstanding. 
Some people raised cautionary notes yesterday. 
Moody's Investors Service placed Dynegy on review for a possible credit-ratings downgrade. 
Standard & Poor's made a similar move on Friday. 
Moody's said that while it saw positive elements to the proposed combination, it also believed "the financial and business risks associated with the transaction could negatively impact Dynegy's credit fundamentals." 
Prudential Securities analyst Carol Coale, who counts herself a fan of Dynegy, also worries that Enron's enormous problems could be a drag on the combined entity. 
"I don't want the Dynegy folks to get into something that's not good for the company," she said. 
As reported, Enron in the past several weeks has seen its stock price and standing in the investment community plummet, largely as the result of large-scale transactions it did with partnerships headed by Enron officers. 
Those transactions have produced hundreds of millions of dollars of write-offs and restatements in the past month. 
They are being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and have helped spawn more than a dozen shareholder lawsuits.
All Rights Reserved. 
Gas Pipeline Is Prominent As Dynegy Seeks Enron
By FLOYD NORRIS
11/13/2001
The New York Times
Dynegy has negotiated a great takeover. 
And it may end up buying Enron, too. 
As part of its planned acquisition of Enron, Dynegy will get the crown jewel even if the overall deal falls apart. 
In return for its $1.5 billion investment today, Dynegy has the right to acquire Northern Natural Gas, a pipeline system that is probably worth more.
As Dynegy stock soared 14 percent yesterday, Enron's lagged behind, rising just 7 percent. 
[Page C13.] 
That widened the spread -- the profit a trader could lock in by buying Enron and selling Dynegy short, assuming the deal goes through -- to 28 percent. 
The big premium probably reflects more than the fact that this deal will not close for many months. 
It is at least a possibility that Dynegy will renegotiate the price, or even walk away, as it learns more about Enron's business. 
Not that Chuck Watson, chairman and chief executive of Dynegy, was threatening to do any such thing. 
In a talk to analysts yesterday, and in a later interview, he was extraordinarily upbeat about Enron's trading business even as he dismissed many of the company's diversifications as failures whose poor performance might have been obscured by fancy accounting. 
Full details of the agreement between the companies will not be known until the merger agreement is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission today or tomorrow. 
But it appears that if the agreement falls apart for any reason, Dynegy has the right to keep the pipeline without putting up any additional cash. 
Speaking to analysts yesterday, Rob Doty, chief financial officer at Dynegy, said the company was paying about seven or eight times the cash flow of the pipeline business. 
Walking away from the deal might cost Dynegy $350 million if it could not cite any material adverse change in Enron's business, as provided in the merger agreement. 
But one way to look at this deal is that Dynegy is spending $1.85 billion for the pipeline and a right to get the rest of Enron on the agreed terms. 
Mr. Watson said he was confident that things would not go wrong. 
''We have comfort there is not another shoe to drop,'' he said. 
''If there is no shoe, this is a phenomenally good transaction.'' 
In presentations to analysts, Dynegy officials said they expected the company's earnings per share to grow by at least 90 cents a year even before considering cost reductions as the two businesses are merged. 
That arithmetic was based on assumptions that Enron could deliver at least 75 percent of the $2 a share in pro-forma earnings that Wall Street had been forecasting for next year. 
Those forecasts had stayed the same even as Enron's business collapsed. 
The bullish case for the merger is that Enron's real profits were there and that the financial maneuvering did not cover up far deeper problems. 
Mr. Watson promised that more details would be disclosed about the partnerships that were created by Enron and traded with it, providing a substantial part of the company's profits in 2000. 
Enron's need to make a deal quickly -- almost any deal -- was emphasized by Standard & Poor's, the bond rating service. 
In a conference call yesterday, Ron Barone, an analyst with S.& P., said that without the takeover, Enron's rating would have been cut to low BB or high B. 
Those ratings are not even at the high end of junk, and a company like Enron, which depends on others being willing to treat it as a trusted trading partner, needs an investment grade rating. 
Its current S.& P. 
rating is BBB minus, the lowest investment grade rating. 
That means Enron could not continue as an independent business. 
And it means that should Dynegy decide to renegotiate, Enron would be in a very poor bargaining position unless it had another bidder.
All Rights Reserved. 
Records indicate that there are a significant number of employees who have yet to have a drug test.
Here are the details of the locations in Houston, Portland and other locations.
Please attend one as soon as possible to avoid delays in your your onboarding and payroll processing.
X-FileName: vladi pimenov 6-26-02.PST
UBS have organized an important meeting  will be held tomorrow for all employees who : 
1) have accepted offers or 
2) intend to accept offers ( to the best of their knowledge) but who have issues that are being resolved
All employees in these categories should attend
Buses will be provided for those who do not have their own transport and will pick up from the south side of the north building - please assemble in the Java plaza area from 8.30am  to 9.30am ( last bus leaves  @ 9.30 am )
The meeting will last until approximately 1pm  and will be presented by senior managers from UBS on the firm and it's strategy.
There will be breakfast available at the Hotel from 9am to 10am and there will be sandwiches afterwards. 
If traveling independently please make sure you leave sufficient time to park (it will be very busy) and get to the Grand ballroom
Employees need to bring their id's or drivers license with them to gain access to the meeting
I'm sorry for the short notice on this - please call out to anyone who should be attending who will not get this message in time 
Suitor for Enron Receives Approval From Wall St.
By ALEX BERENSON
11/13/2001
The New York Times
Wall Street found nothing but good news in Dynegy's $9 billion takeover of the Enron Corporation yesterday. 
Three days after Dynegy, an energy marketing and trading company based in Houston, agreed to take over Enron, its giant crosstown rival, Dynegy executives came to New York to assure investors that the deal would sharply increase their company's profits. 
They met a receptive audience.
Dynegy stock closed yesterday at $44.31, up $5.55, or 14.3 percent. 
Since last Wednesday, when news of a possible takeover emerged, Dynegy's stock has risen more than one-third. 
Enron closed at $9.24, up 61 cents, or 7.1 percent. 
After some initial uncertainty about the takeover, investors appear to have accepted Dynegy's view that the deal will give it a lucrative franchise in trading natural gas and electricity. 
Enron's stock fell almost 80 percent in the weeks leading up to the deal as Enron said it had overstated its earnings by almost $600 million since 1997 and forced out several top executives. 
But Chuck Watson, Dynegy's chairman, told investors repeatedly yesterday that Enron's problems were mainly a result of failed expansion efforts. 
He largely dismissed the concerns of some short-sellers and analysts that Enron might be hiding losses at its core energy trading operations. 
''There's nothing wrong with Enron's business,'' Mr. Watson said in an interview at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel after making a lunchtime presentation to analysts and investors. 
''The people in it ought to be really upset that for the last several years, they have produced earnings and cash that have been invested in other businesses that are not making money.'' 
Enron's immediate problem was a crisis of confidence, which could have caused other companies to stop trading with it, Mr. Watson said. 
A $1.5 billion cash infusion from Dynegy should restore the confidence of Enron's business partners and keep Enron stable until the takeover is complete, he said. 
To bolster Enron further, J. P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup may each invest an additional $250 million, executives close to the deal said. 
The potential investments by J. P. Morgan Chase and Citigroup were reported yesterday in The Wall Street Journal. 
Mr. Watson said Dynegy would also move quickly to assuage Enron employees who are angry that Kenneth L. 
Lay, Enron's chairman, and other top executives sold hundreds of millions of dollars in stock in 2000 and this year as Enron's shares plunged. 
''Right now, there's some animosity over there,'' he said. 
Many employees at Enron will get new grants of stock options when the acquisition is completed, he said. 
The company said it expected the deal to close by the end of the third quarter of next year, after extensive reviews from federal and state energy regulators and the Department of Justice. 
Mr. Watson predicted that the deal would lift Dynegy's earnings by 90 cents or more a share next year, to more than $3.45 a share. 
Analysts backed that view yesterday. 
''Investments in noncore business distracted the attention of management and also took up capital,'' said Thomas Hamlin, an analyst at Wachovia Securities. 
Mr. Hamlin said he believed that Dynegy had obtained Enron, which reported more than $100 billion in revenue last year, for a bargain price. 
''It's not too often you get to take out the No. 
7 Fortune 500 company and double your earnings in the meantime,'' he said. 
''My guess is the stock is worth $70 per share.'' 
The deal could increase Dynegy's earnings by $1 to $2 a share next year, said Christopher Ellinghaus, an analyst at the Williams Capital Group. 
''That's a whopper,'' he said. 
''It's a very good deal financially, certainly should be a good deal strategically, and provides some immediate balance-sheet backstop for Enron.'' 
Mr. Lay said in an interview that Enron had been forced to sell itself because of ''the relentlessness of all the articles and the shorts.'' 
''We realized that we needed to do something to stabilize the ship,'' he said. 
''A good company was being badly tarnished.''
Photo: In Houston, the headquarters building of Dynegy Inc., the energy and marketing trading company, which is in a $9 billion takeover of Enron. 
(Asociated Press) 
All Rights Reserved. 
Share boost for Dynegy good news 
Saving Enron trading called key handicap 
By LAURA GOLDBERG and DAVID IVANOVICH 
November 13, 2001
Houston Chronicle
Although investors Monday cheered Dynegy's planned acquisition of Enron Corp., Dynegy must still negotiate a series of potential roadblocks to pull off a successful merger. 
Among them: ensuring that Enron's core energy-trading business, suffering before the merger announcement, stays healthy. 
Negative news on that front quickly surfaced Monday as at least two traders said they still plan extremely limited business with Enron. 
Dynegy must also manage any unexpected disclosures about Enron's financial performance and investment partnerships, convince Enron's traders and other key employees to stick around, and mesh different corporate cultures. 
Investors were optimistic in Dynegy's abilities as shares in the company traded up $5.55 to close at $44.31 Monday, while shares in Enron ended the day up 61 cents at $9.24. 
Enron has been under siege since Oct. 
16 when it reported a $35 million loss and $1.2 billion reduction in shareholder equity tied to business dealings with investment partnerships run by its then-chief financial officer. 
Since then, the Securities and Exchange Commission started an investigation of Enron, a slew of shareholder lawsuits were filed and Enron's stock price plummeted. 
A new shareholder suit filed Monday included Dynegy on its list of defendants. 
Last week, Enron said it was restating its earnings back to 1997 to include losses related to a number of complex partnerships, including several being investigated by the SEC. 
It said it was correcting almost $600 million worth of mistakes. 
Just how close Enron was to a collapse remains unclear. 
One industry source believes Enron had been pushed "to the brink" and would have been done for if it had been unable to reach agreement with Dynegy last week. 
But Ron Barone, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor's, doesn't think Enron's condition was so desperate. 
"We clearly didn't see this as an imminent bankruptcy or imminent default, but it is something that could have eroded over time ... 
in a fairly short time." 
Friday, Enron's long-term debt rating was downgraded to one notch above investment-grade status by both Moody's Investors Service and S&P. 
Enron is the largest natural gas and electricity trader in the nation, accounting for about 25 percent of all transactions. 
Its collapse would have meant the loss of much liquidity in the trading market, making trades more difficult and prices more volatile, industry experts said. 
Dynegy announced a deal Friday to buy Enron at a fire-sale price of almost $9 billion in stock, plus the assumption of about $13 billion in debt and $2 billion in preferred stock. 
The merger is expected to close, barring holdups from regulators, in six to nine months. 
As part of the agreement, Dynegy stakeholder ChevronTexaco is giving Dynegy $1.5 billion, which is to be infused today to help shore up Enron's liquidity and preserve its trading franchise. 
Some of Enron's former trading partners are still steering clear of the giant. 
To facilitate transactions, the various energy trading firms extend credit to one another. 
Those agreements are contingent upon a partner maintaining an adequate rating. 
If the credit rating firms had downgraded Enron's debt to junk status, its trading operation would have been devastated, industry officials said. 
As details of Enron's questionable financial dealings have been revealed, Enron's trading partners have been scrambling to reduce their exposure. 
Kansas City, Mo.-based Aquila Energy Marketing Corp., for instance, has been ratcheting down its activity with Enron, company spokesman Al Butkus said. 
By the end of last week, Aquila's exposure to Enron was "insignificant," Butkus said. 
"And after all that was revealed on Friday and the downgrading of the credit, we are now at an even lower level." 
Atlanta-based Mirant has likewise reduced its exposure and is only doing a limited amount of business with Enron. 
Some larger players, however, continue doing deals with the company. 
"Reliant Energy has consistently been trading with Enron through its difficulties, albeit with a heightened sense of caution," said Shahid Malik, president of Houston-based Reliant Energy's trading operation. 
Charlotte, N.C.-based Duke Energy's exposure stands at $100 million. 
"We're continuing the way we have been," said Duke spokesman Terry Francisco. 
John Olson, an analyst with Sanders Morris Harris in Houston, predicted it would take the traders some time to digest the merger deal. 
"I think people will increasingly come back to Enron just as soon as the $1.5 billion changes hands," he said. 
Traders still have incentives to do business with Enron even though it's being sold, as it has a wider variety of products than some of its competitors and its EnronOnline Internet trading operation is regarded as superior. 
On a conference call with investors and analysts Monday morning, Dynegy and Enron executives fielded a variety of questions about the merger but refused comment on a Wall Street Journal report that J.P. 
Morgan Chase & Co. 
and Citigroup are considering a $500 million investment in Enron. 
Analysts remain worried that new and troubling surprises will emerge about Enron's finances, including those that could call into question whether its core trading business is as advertised. 
Dynegy executives aren't expecting any such disclosures, but took a conservative approach to calculating merger benefits. 
"I believe we have adequately bracketed the downside," said Chuck Watson, Dynegy's chairman and chief executive. 
Even with a worst-case scenario, Dynegy still found a "tremendous amount of economic value" in the merger, said Watson, who will take the same roles after the merger. 
The deal, Dynegy said, will add 90 cents to 95 cents per share in earnings for current Dynegy shareholders. 
And that's before cost savings that are expected to run $400 million to $500 million a year. 
Dynegy detailed two escape clauses in the merger deal. 
For one, if the amount of legal and shareholder claims Enron must pay out is greater than $3.5 billion, it can be called off. 
Enron and Dynegy officials also said they will do whatever it takes to keep their key people. 
Jeff Dietert, an analyst with Simmons & Co. 
International in Houston, believes that a number of Enron's marketers and traders will find Dynegy a strong alternative. 
"I firmly believe that the Enron guys like to play on the winning team and Dynegy is a very, very strong player," he said. 
That Dynegy was approached by three key Enron executives about a merger showed Dynegy would be getting the full cooperation of Enron's management team, Watson said. 
Enron employees working for Dynegy will have to get used to a new culture. 
Teamwork and fraternal are words often used to describe Dynegy, while cutthroat is used for Enron, which also is known for its willingness to take more risk. 
Watson plans to blend strategies and business elements of each. 
The new company will include Enron's strong offering of financial products and combine them with Dynegy's base of power plants and other assets, said Steve Bergstrom, Dynegy's president, who will take the same job in the new company. 
The post-merger Dynegy will also be more involved in "market-making," which Enron is known for. 
That's the practice of ensuring orderly markets can exist by acting as both the buyer and the seller of a commodity. 
It's unclear whether Dynegy will continue Enron's foray into other commodities such as paper and metals. 
Dynegy hopes Enron can complete its planned sale of assets considered outside its core wholesale energy business before the merger closes. 
Enron already has deals to sell power utility Portland General Electric along with about $900 million in international assets. 
Billions of dollars in international projects are for sale. 
But Watson said Dynegy isn't interested in seeing the assets go at bargain-basement prices. 
"We don't necessarily feel like our back is pinned against the wall in asset dispositions," he said. 
Dynegy Pres: Enron's Core Business Is Very, Very Strong
By Christina Cheddar
11/12/2001
Dow Jones News Service
NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Dynegy Inc. 
(DYN) Chairman Chuck Watson said he sees "nothing but upside" ahead from 
the company's planned acquisition of Enron Corp. (ENE), which was announced late Friday. 
In addition to being a sound strategic move, the deal "injects confidence into the energy markets," said Watson, 
founder of the Houston energy trading firm, in a conference call held Monday to discuss the $8.85 billion takeover 
of Enron.
On Friday, Dynegy confirmed the widely speculated deal by announcing it would buy its cross-town rival in a stock
swap that values each Enron share at 0.2685 of a Dynegy share. 
The sale of Enron for only a quarter of its share price a month ago, or just a quarter of its all-time high of
$90 a share reached just last year, follows an abrupt turn in Enron's fortunes. 
Last week, Enron, which is the nation's biggest trader of natural gas and electricity, admitted its financial 
statements going back to 1997 couldn't be relied upon and would have to be restated. 
The company made accounting 
errors in recording transactions from some of its limited partnerships. 
The company also misstated its level of 
debt and its shareholder equity over this period. 
Enron's partnership dealings are being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and have sparked
a number of shareholder lawsuits. 
Over the past month, new revelations about Enron's web of partnerships and off-balance sheet financing vehicles 
have been uncovered almost daily. 
During the conference call, Kenneth Lay, Enron's chairman and chief executive, said it was a "very reflective 
time" for him. 
When Lay transformed Enron from a natural gas pipeline company into a dynamic energy trading company that
was a darling on Wall Street, this was clearly not what he had in mind. 
Lay said, "I didn't expect to create the world's next leading energy trading company by merging Enron i
nto another company." 
Enron officials said they were continuing their internal investigations of its accounting practices. 
"We have disclosed anything and everything we have found so far," Lay said. 
Enron President and Chief Operating Officer Greg Whalley, who will remain with Dynegy after the merger
as an executive vice president, said Enron will host a conference call "later this week" to further discuss
recent events at the company. 
The call will likely be held on Wednesday, he said. 
In light of the uncertainty surrounding Enron's financial dealings, it is not surprising that quite a number
of questions during the conference call focused on the company's liquidity and the potential liabilities Dynegy
would assume in the transaction. 
Dynegy's acquisition agreement allows the company to walk away if Enron's additional legal and financial 
liabilities exceed $3.5 billion. 
There also are other "material adverse change," or MAC, provisions, officials said. 
Upon the closing of the acquisition, Dynegy expects to post reserves to cover the cost of outstanding
litigation, said Dynegy's Doty. 
"We believe we have adequately bracketed the downside," said Dynegy's Watson. 
"There has to be a
substantial, substantial material change in what we already know ... 
I don't want to minimize the impact. 
That's why we have MAC outs." 
According to Dynegy's Bergstrom, the economics of the transaction assumed the potential risk 
from outstanding lawsuits. 
"Even in that worst-case there is a substantial amount of economic value here," Watson said. 
Dynegy expects to continue its due diligence in the months leading up to the deal's close, Bergstrom said. 
Dynegy's examination of the business so far has turned up "no surprises" in Enron's core energy trading
business, Bergstrom said. 
However, the merger agreement has provisions in case the company's examination
does reveal any, Bergstrom said. 
"We don't expect to find anything material," he said, adding that Enron's core energy business is "very, very strong." 
Based on its current information, Dynegy expects the acquisition to increase earnings by 35%, or between 90 cents
to 95 cents a share, before taking into account expected merger cost savings. 
As a result, Dynegy now expects its full year pro forma earnings for 2002 to be in the range of $3.40 to $3.50 a share. 
According to Thomson Financial/First Call, analysts were expecting Dynegy to earn $2.57 a share next year.
In 2000, the company earned $1.43 a share before items. 
Dynegy has estimated cost savings from the acquisition at between $400 million to $500 million. 
The ratio of stock Enron shareholders will be paid is fixed and there is no collar to limit its range, said a
Dynegy spokeswoman. 
There isn't a walkaway provision, but if the deal is terminated, Dynegy will own rights to Enron's Northern 
Natural Gas pipeline because of the $1.5 billion cash infusion it will provide to the company immediately. 
Dynegy able to give Enron the cash infusion immediately because ChevronTexaco Corp. (CVX), which owns slightly
more than a fourth of Dynegy, will invest $2.5 billion in Dynegy. 
The deal has a $350 million "topping fee," a Dynegy spokeswoman said. 
She explained that if either party decided
to terminated the transaction, that party would owe the other the "topping fee" if it were acquired by another party. 
Dynegy's Bergstrom said he expects the acquisition of Enron will receive the needed regulatory approvals and 
close within the next six to nine months. 
In addition to approval by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the deal must be approved by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission. 
"We expect FERC to be the pacesetter," Bergstrom said. 
Until the deal closes, Dynegy expects Enron will have "sufficient interim liquidity," Doty said. 
"(The cash infusion) should immediately put to rest the liquidity concerns." 
Based on conversations Dynegy had with the leading credit rating agencies management expects Enron's 
ratings to remain investment grade, Doty said. 
Meanwhile, Dynegy's ratings are expected to be affirmed 
at their current ratings, but be placed on watch for a downgrade until the transaction is completed, he said. 
According to Doty, Dynegy expects its debt-to-capital ratio will be below 40% after the acquisition closes. 
Enron said it wouldn't comment on reports published in The Wall Street Journal Monday that said its bankers, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and Citigroup Inc. 
(C) are considering making an additional $500 million investment in Enron. 
Dynegy officials said marketplace speculation that suggested Dynegy was acquiring Enron because it was afraid Enron would default on a liability it owed Dynegy was incorrect. 
"Dynegy currently owes Enron an immaterial amount, less than $50 million," said Dynegy's Doty. 
The chief financial officer also pledged to make the combined company's balance sheet more easy to understand than that of Enron. 
But integrating the two energy trading companies will be more than just combining their balance sheets. 
According to Enron's Whalley, the integration of Enron's non-core assets trading businesses will be rather simple, but combing the core trading businesses "will not be the easiest thing to do." 
One prevalent concern is that Enron's trading talent will depart for other jobs, and erode the true value of the business, which is rooted in intellectual capital. 
The employees have seen their value of compensation, which was partially paid in stock options, erode with the value of Enron's shares. 
"I believe we will retain the people we already have," Whalley said. 
"Most traders want to be part of the winning team." 
However, the officials didn't say whether they were making any specific efforts to retain staff. 
Still, in the end, callers were most interested in learning more about Enron's past accounting practices and the potential effects it will have on the future Dynegy. 
Officials from both companies said they couldn't tell yet if there were any additional details that needed to be revealed. 
Mahon replaced Andrew Fastow, who resigned after questions arose related to a partnership he ran while chief financial officer of Enron. 
Fastow's activities are at the center of the SEC probe of Enron's financial dealings. 
-By Christina Cheddar, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5166; christina.cheddar@dowjones.com
Dynegy Deal Sets Path Of Resolution For Enron - Analyst
By Christina Cheddar 11/13/2001
Dow Jones News Service
NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Dynegy Inc.'s (DYN) proposed acquisition of Enron Corp. (ENE) "creates a clear path for the resolution" of the liquidity and financial issues plaguing Enron, said Ted Izatt, a high-grade debt research analyst at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. 
Izatt made the comments during a conference call held Tuesday with bondholders to discuss the proposed acquisition, which was announced late last Friday. 
Lehman's investment bankers advised Dynegy on the transaction. 
Enron was advised by J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and Citigroup Inc. 
On Monday, the marriage of the two Houston energy traders received a warm reception as equity investors bid up shares of both companies. 
Recently, Enron shares traded at $9.25, up 1 cent, or 0.2%, while Dynegy shares changed hands at $45.00, up 69 cents, up 1.6%. 
Enron shares had fallen more than 80% in the weeks leading up to the transaction as the company posted more than $1 billion in write-offs of failed investments and was forced to restate its earnings going back to 1997 because it improperly accounted for the results at some of its partnerships. 
The restatement reduced Enron's profits over the period by 20% and added millions to its debt level. 
Also, the Securities and Exchange Commission launched an investigation of the financial dealings of Enron's former chief financial officer, Andrew Fastow. 
The chain of events prompted a series of credit rating downgrades and raised doubts about Enron's liquidity 
Eventually, the concerns threatened Enron's core energy marketing and trading business because a perception of creditworthiness is vital to the business. 
Izatt said a combination of $1 billion in newly secured bank lines and the $1.5 billion equity infusion from Dynegy has bolstered Enron's financial position. 
With this additional cash on hand, the greatest risk to bondholders is whether the deal closes, said Izatt. 
The analyst added he expects the merger to close because both companies are committed to the deal, and he expects regulators to approve the transaction. 
"There is a lot of commitment to get the deal done," he said. 
However, if the transaction doesn't close, Izatt said he believes Dynegy's bondholders are "very well protected" in the transaction. 
According to Izatt, Dynegy's bonds are at an "attractive level." The spread on the bonds had widened ahead of the announcement of the deal as rumors began to leak into the market, leaving the price of the bond in a weaker position. 
But Izatt does expect Dynegy will merge with Enron, and the resulting company will emerge as a "much stronger company," he said. 
For example, the analyst expects Dynegy has the potential to achieve more than $400 million to $500 million in pretax, merger cost savings Dynegy is projecting. 
Also, Izatt said Dynegy's cash infusion and purchase will help Enron to retain its position in the energy market. 
"Dynegy is there for real," Izatt said. 
"They intend to see this through to fruition and energy players will view this and (feel confident enough to trade with Enron.)" 
Under terms of the acquisition, Dynegy will pay Enron shareholders 0.2685 of a Dynegy share for each Enron share outstanding. 
The value of the stock swap at the close of the market Monday was $10.12 billion. 
Dynegy is making an immediate cash investment in Enron with the assistance of ChevronTexaco Corp (CVX). 
Later, when the deal closes, ChevronTexaco will make an additional $1 billion investment in the combined company. 
Listened in on the analyst call this morning.
Here are my notes.
Did not yet have a chance to organize them, so they're simply in chronological order.
The call began with Watson, Bergstrom, and Whalley reading from prepared statements.
Watson spoke for c.
10 minutes, Bergstrom for 5, and Whalley spoke for perhaps 30 seconds.
Dynegy management was noticeably in control of the call.
Enron executives spoke when questions were directed to them.
Specific points:
EES will be a part of the new company.
Enron assets will be revalued at closing.
The investment in Northern Natural takes the form of convertible preferred.
If the merger does not go through, Dynegy has the right to acquire Northern for 'very little' additional consideration.
If DYN terminates the merger and ENE 'has sufficient liquidity', ENE has right to repurchase the convertible preferred.
Debt/equity of combined company expected to be <45%.
Both companies will remain on RatingsWatch negative.
ChevronTexaco will hold 169MM shares out of a total 650MM shares of the post-merger entity.
Watson reiterates that going forward, the new entity will be run with a focus on transparent and clear financial structure and disclosure, with a significant reduction in on- and off-balance-sheet leverage.
In what was termed a "new approach", the new entity will be run with a focus on cash flow rather than earnings.
Rumors that Dynegy did the deal because of an unhedged exposure to Enron are not true.
Dynegy owed Enron <$50MM.
Lay says that Enron had other options, 'particularly financial'.
All of the discussion and activity has taken place over the last two weeks.
Lay acknowledges that the number for exposure to securities lawsuits may be 'pretty big', but that the companies feel they're able to appropriately value this exposure.
Lay says we have nothing else to hide, but internal investigation still under way.
Lay:  had the SPEs been capitalized with perhaps $30MM more of risk capital, there would have been no question that they would have qualified for off-balance-sheet treatment and there would have been no need to restate earnings last week to reflect consolidation of the SPEs.
Dynegy says that 'several' internal investigations continue at Enron, and thus DYN/ENE cannot say with certainty that there's absolutely nothing else out there.
Doty (Dynegy CFO) says that late last week, ENE had 'close to a billion' in cash.
Osprey will be unwound late next summer.
Marlin will be unwound after closing.
Many of the off-balance-sheet structures, including the credit-linked notes, are expected to be unwound/redeemed or at least significantly reduced prior to closing.
With regard to ENE asset dispositions, these will be accelerated to the extent possible.
However, Doty says that 'our backs are not against the wall', and the company will continue to focus on getting value for its assets as well as cash.
ENE will renew its 364-day facility (believe this is the $3Bn facility that we drew down a couple of weeks ago) within the next 6-8 weeks.
BBB-flat most likely rating for combined entity, according to initial comments from ratings agencies.
McMahon says 'no comment' to WSJ article indicating that ENE's banks are preparing to make an equity infusion into ENE in the next few weeks.
Consolidation of trading activity: Mid- and back-office consolidation will see substantial progress prior to closing, such that only the front office / trading books will need to be combined at closing.
EES, NNG and TW have no real overlap with existing DYN activity, so there won't be much integration work required there.
The big integration effort will be ENA.
Watson says that the 'creative financing' surrounded non-core assets.
Doty adds that, 'frankly', DYN assigned zero economic value to non-core businesses in their valuation model.
They bracketed the maximum expected exposure from the non-core assets/businesses and left it at that.
Watson mentions that DYN would not have gotten involved with Enron had they not been approached by 'Enron's top three executives', who said that they thought a combination with Dynegy made the most strategic sense for both companies.
Says that their approach evidenced a  willingness to work with DYN to integrate the two companies that made a big difference in Dynegy's deliberations on proceeding with the merger.
Watson/Doty said that they're NOT 100% sure that no surprises remain in Enron's books--but that the risk/reward offered by the combination was compelling.
The deal does have material-adverse-change outs for Dynegy, covering any MAC regarding Enron's assets or businesses.
Dynegy's lawyers indicated that the MAC language was a 'blunt instrument' under which it would be difficult to bring a case, so Dynegy inserted a specific paragraph that gives Dynegy the right to terminate the merger if the Enron's total legal liability (from any source or cause of action) tops $3.5Bn prior to closing.
McMahon adds that there 'could' be more restatements, but he 'does not expect' there to be more restatements.
ENE international hard assets definitely on the asset disposition list.
The merger structure calls for a new entity to take over Enron.
Enron is planning to hold an Enron-specific conference call in the next few days, tentatively scheduled for Wednesday.
Initial reaction of ratings agencies 'very positive' to combined entities.
McMahon acknowledges that Enron would have had to have an additional equity infusion prior to year-end, had the merger not materialized.
Dynegy's earnings guidance places Enron-related earnings accretion at $0.90-0.95, which represents a '25% haircut' to Enron internal estimates.
Doty says that this is all operating earnings--figure does not include any amounts from expected synergies.
Doty says that both Enron and Dynegy's books, as far as he understands, are relatively short-term in weight, and this will continue to be the weighting of the new entity.
Says a 'very very substantial' portion of future trading earnings will be expected to be cash.
ChevronTexaco's investment in Dynegy was calculated at a 5% discount to public prices on the date of negotiation (not disclosed).
Given the runup in Dynegy stock last week, ChevronTexaco's investment is now at a 'more substantial' discount to market prices.
ChevronTexaco has provision to get 'different prices at closing if those prices are substantially better'.
(No further clarification given).
Whalley believes that 'we'll retain' the Enron traders and marketers.
They're used to being part of a winning team, and the combined entity will definitely be a winner.
They have talked with most of the Enron business leaders, and they are 'very excited' by the combination.
They will be working with the Enron business leaders to ensure talent is retained.
Whalley was asked if there will be any key employee retention provisions.
He says that 'to the extent necessary, yes.'
Watson says that the trading strategy of the combined entity will be a combination of DYN and ENE--there will be more of an asset-backed trading focus, but by the same token the new Dynegy will be involved in much more financial market-making trading than the Dynegy of today.
Watson says that if there were to be any change in culture, he's a strong team player.
He does not want to see an individual do well if the company or division does not do well.
Give me a call if you'd like me to try to clarify any of these comments.
yah, i'm looking forward to yoga.
i didn't do anything over break and was really looking forward to starting up my practice again and went several times as soon as i got back, but then i got sick, so ...
i may try to take a nap this afternoon before yoga.
i'm very bad with directions.
i have the address at home and can call you with it, but basically, i go east on 12th Ave, turn right on (i think) 8th Street and then turn left on (i think) 24th Ave (there's an asian restaurant at this corner) and then it's up on the right side.
there's a big block of warehouse buildings.
it's a little complicated to find from here actually, maybe you should pick me up and we can go together?  
i don't really shop for "yoga clothes" partly out of some sort of philosophical resistance and also because the women's stuff is so much cooler than men's stuff that i don't want to bother.
dude, that 6:00am yoga story is brutal!  YIM is going downhill - i don't think rockne can hold onto his good instrucors.
i hope core yoga stays solvent!  
Hey Cooper, 
So are you getting ready for yoga tonight??  I'm really looking foward to it.
I haven't gone in over a week and I am having serious yoga withdrawl.
Did I tell you that I went, or I attempted to go,to a 6am yoga class at yoga in motion yesterday??  I psyched myself up to get up at 5:30am to go (which is extremly early when you start work at 8:30!) and the instructor never showed up.
So we all sat outside waiting.
We all finally left and went home.
So I got nothing accomplished.
I was tired,  but couldn't go back to sleep, and I didn't feel relaxed, as I usually do after a yoga practice.
Can you tell me where the Space is again???  I am meeting Jaimie after work at 5:30.
She has her car here,  so if you need a ride let me know.
I have to warn you...Jaimie is a brutal driver.
It's almost funny!
Not much luck finding yoga attire.
I have been to lululemon in Vancouver.
It's a super cool store.
Have you bought anything from there?  I regret that I didn't.....but now that I have internet access at work the possibilities are endless (not to mention, expensive!)
Enjoy the rest of your day! 
although i like my yoga naked, i do like to put something on for savasana (corpse pose at the end), which is probly what she's thinking.
the latest 
in canadian yoga fashion can be found at www.lululemon.com 
give me a look on the movie if you end up going and want to see royal t's.
cell is 512 3312.
After spending that long opening a bank account,  I would have settled for stashing my money under my matress.
My brother did that for a while.
Ya,  he's different,  but cool.
I keep forgetting your American.
Your not a shitty american,  as long as you don't believe we live in igloos,  your fine.
Did Jai forward you Ingrid's e-mail from this morning about her "awful news?"  It's funny.
Jaimie wanted to go see a movie tonight.
We were thinking maybe royal tannebaums.
I'm going to call her after my run because it's still up in 
the air.
She wants to go find some yoga pants...what part of "naked yoga" didn't she understand???!!!!  If we end up going to a movie we'll 
call you guys or maybe you want to come shopping with us???  Isn't that every guy's dream come true? 
agh.
i just spent 2.5 hours opening a bank account!  banking in this country sucks.
i hate to be a shitty american and i do love canada, but 
the banking system is brutal.
yeah, working for a law firm is sweet, i see the same perks here working for a management consulting firm.
i'm glad you briefed the ladies on the naked yoga, maybe janice could give us a demo.
are you watching the royal tennenbaums tonight?  we talked about it long ago...
and i do want to see it.
glad to see you are breaking in your email account.
gotcha. 
hood river would be a sweet place to live for awhile.  
alberta's great.  
getting very cold here, but it's been puking in the mountains, so i'm looking forward to getting out skiing, etc.  
with the nosedive enron is taking, it's easy to blow out of work and head to banff. 
alberta just built a 40MW wind farm (doubling wind capacity in the region) with more on the way. 
should be over 1% of installed capacity for the region soon. 
have fun in mejico. 
Hi all,
wanna spend the winter leading eco-tours in the yucatancheck this out.
Background
CESiaK is located on the Caribbean Coast of Mexico, near the Mayan Ruins of Tulum, south of Cancun. 
Still under development, the center is a small ecotourism and education center that will serve as a model for sustainable development in sensitive tropical ecosystems. 
The revenue generated through tours and various on-site activities is used to fund conservation and education programs within the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve. 
The Center operates using ecologically responsible technologies, including systems for wetland waste management, rainwater collection, and solar and wind energy generation. 
It also focuses on community development, educational outreach programs, turtle conservation programs, and biological research, including propagation and  revegetation of native plants. 
CESiaK provides a model for other sustainable development projects as well as an informational resource for the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve.
Eco-Tourism Guide Position 
At CESiaK we currently offer an all-day, educational, sight-seeing boat tour through the Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve and a shorter sunset tour emphasizing bird-watching.
Highlights of the Tour include:
Following the Mayan trade route used 1200 years ago Seeing abundant flora and fauna unique to Sian Ka'an Visiting unexcavated Mayan ruins hidden within the Reserve Floating down a freshwater river and swimming in natural sink-holes Learning the natural and Mayan history of the Reserve with experienced
guides The primary responsibility of the tour guide is to lead these tours and educate tourists about the unique diversity of ecosystems, flora, and fauna found within the Reserve. 
Other responsibilities include preparing food coolers for the tours, communicating problems with tour equipment, and driving and maintaining the two tour vans. 
Depending on qualifications and interest, the guide would also work with other staff members to carry out other programs undertaken by CESiaK. 
Qualifications The ideal candidate would have an undergraduate or graduate degree in biology or environmental science, as well as an interest and understanding of general socio-economic issues of Latin America, including Mayan culture and history. 
However, all candidates with a strong interest in learning will certainly be considered. 
Once hired, the guide will be thoroughly trained to lead the tours. 
Because in many senses the tour guide is the face of the organization, it is crucial to have proven exemplary communication skills, command of the Spanish language, an independent motivation to self-manage the broad responsibilities of the tours, and a dedication to conservation.
Please visit our website for more information: www.cesiak.org
Contact us at: camboyd@tulum.com
Phone 011-52-987-12499
Cel 011-52-987-63115