'I shall never forget Tony's face.  'Twas a little, round, firm, tight
face, with a seam here and there left by the smallpox, but not enough to
hurt his looks in a woman's eye, though he'd had it badish when he was a
boy.  So very serious looking and unsmiling 'a was, that young man, that
it really seemed as if he couldn't laugh at all without great pain to his
conscience.  He looked very hard at a small speck in your eye when
talking to 'ee.  And there was no more sign of a whisker or beard on Tony
Kytes's face than on the palm of my hand.  He used to sing "The Tailor's
Breeches" with a religious manner, as if it were a hymn:--

'"O the petticoats went off, and the breeches they went on!"

and all the rest of the scandalous stuff.  He was quite the women's
favourite, and in return for their likings he loved 'em in shoals.

'But in course of time Tony got fixed down to one in particular, Milly
Richards, a nice, light, small, tender little thing; and it was soon said
that they were engaged to be married.  One Saturday he had been to market
to do business for his father, and was driving home the waggon in the
afternoon.  When he reached the foot of the very hill we shall be going
over in ten minutes who should he see waiting for him at the top but
Unity Sallet, a handsome girl, one of the young women he'd been very
tender toward before he'd got engaged to Milly.

'As soon as Tony came up to her she said, "My dear Tony, will you give me
a lift home?"

'"That I will, darling," said Tony.  "You don't suppose I could refuse
'ee?"

'She smiled a smile, and up she hopped, and on drove Tony.

'"Tony," she says, in a sort of tender chide, "why did ye desert me for
that other one?  In what is she better than I?  I should have made 'ee a
finer wife, and a more loving one too.  'Tisn't girls that are so easily
won at first that are the best.  Think how long we've known each
other--ever since we were children almost--now haven't we, Tony?"

'"Yes, that we have," says Tony, a-struck with the truth o't.

'"And you've never seen anything in me to complain of, have ye, Tony?  Now
tell the truth to me?"

'"I never have, upon my life," says Tony.

'"And--can you say I'm not pretty, Tony?  Now look at me!"

'He let his eyes light upon her for a long while.  "I really can't," says
he.  "In fact, I never knowed you was so pretty before!"

'"Prettier than she?"

'What Tony would have said to that nobody knows, for before he could
speak, what should he see ahead, over the hedge past the turning, but a
feather he knew well--the feather in Milly's hat--she to whom he had been
thinking of putting the question as to giving out the banns that very
week.

'"Unity," says he, as mild as he could, "here's Milly coming.  Now I
shall catch it mightily if she sees 'ee riding here with me; and if you
get down she'll be turning the corner in a moment, and, seeing 'ee in the
road, she'll know we've been coming on together.  Now, dearest Unity,
will ye, to avoid all unpleasantness, which I know ye can't bear any more
than I, will ye lie down in the back part of the waggon, and let me cover
you over with the tarpaulin till Milly has passed?  It will all be done
in a minute.  Do!--and I'll think over what we've said; and perhaps I
shall put a loving question to you after all, instead of to Milly.
'Tisn't true that it is all settled between her and me."

'Well, Unity Sallet agreed, and lay down at the back end of the waggon,
and Tony covered her over, so that the waggon seemed to be empty but for
the loose tarpaulin; and then he drove on to meet Milly.

'"My dear Tony!" cries Milly, looking up with a little pout at him as he
came near.  "How long you've been coming home!  Just as if I didn't live
at Upper Longpuddle at all!  And I've come to meet you as you asked me to
do, and to ride back with you, and talk over our future home--since you
asked me, and I promised.  But I shouldn't have come else, Mr. Tony!"

'"Ay, my dear, I did ask ye--to be sure I did, now I think of it--but I
had quite forgot it.  To ride back with me, did you say, dear Milly?"

'"Well, of course!  What can I do else?  Surely you don't want me to
walk, now I've come all this way?"

'"O no, no!  I was thinking you might be going on to town to meet your
mother.  I saw her there--and she looked as if she might be expecting
'ee."

'"O no; she's just home.  She came across the fields, and so got back
before you."

'"Ah!  I didn't know that," says Tony.  And there was no help for it but
to take her up beside him.

'They talked on very pleasantly, and looked at the trees, and beasts, and
birds, and insects, and at the ploughmen at work in the fields, till
presently who should they see looking out of the upper window of a house
that stood beside the road they were following, but Hannah Jolliver,
another young beauty of the place at that time, and the very first woman
that Tony had fallen in love with--before Milly and before Unity, in
fact--the one that he had almost arranged to marry instead of Milly.  She
was a much more dashing girl than Milly Richards, though he'd not thought
much of her of late.  The house Hannah was looking from was her aunt's.

'"My dear Milly--my coming wife, as I may call 'ee," says Tony in his
modest way, and not so loud that Unity could overhear, "I see a young
woman alooking out of window, who I think may accost me.  The fact is,
Milly, she had a notion that I was wishing to marry her, and since she's
discovered I've promised another, and a prettier than she, I'm rather
afeard of her temper if she sees us together.  Now, Milly, would you do
me a favour--my coming wife, as I may say?"

'"Certainly, dearest Tony," says she.

'"Then would ye creep under the empty sacks just here in the front of the
waggon, and hide there out of sight till we've passed the house?  She
hasn't seen us yet.  You see, we ought to live in peace and good-will
since 'tis almost Christmas, and 'twill prevent angry passions rising,
which we always should do."

'"I don't mind, to oblige you, Tony," Milly said; and though she didn't
care much about doing it, she crept under, and crouched down just behind
the seat, Unity being snug at the other end.  So they drove on till they
got near the road-side cottage.  Hannah had soon seen him coming, and
waited at the window, looking down upon him.  She tossed her head a
little disdainful and smiled off-hand.

'"Well, aren't you going to be civil enough to ask me to ride home with
you!" she says, seeing that he was for driving past with a nod and a
smile.

'"Ah, to be sure!  What was I thinking of?" said Tony, in a flutter.  "But
you seem as if you was staying at your aunt's?"

'"No, I am not," she said.  "Don't you see I have my bonnet and jacket
on?  I have only called to see her on my way home.  How can you be so
stupid, Tony?"

'"In that case--ah--of course you must come along wi' me," says Tony,
feeling a dim sort of sweat rising up inside his clothes.  And he reined
in the horse, and waited till she'd come downstairs, and then helped her
up beside him.  He drove on again, his face as long as a face that was a
round one by nature well could be.

'Hannah looked round sideways into his eyes.  "This is nice, isn't it,
Tony?" she says.  "I like riding with you."

'Tony looked back into her eyes.  "And I with you," he said after a
while.  In short, having considered her, he warmed up, and the more he
looked at her the more he liked her, till he couldn't for the life of him
think why he had ever said a word about marriage to Milly or Unity while
Hannah Jolliver was in question.  So they sat a little closer and closer,
their feet upon the foot-board and their shoulders touching, and Tony
thought over and over again how handsome Hannah was.  He spoke tenderer
and tenderer, and called her "dear Hannah" in a whisper at last.

'"You've settled it with Milly by this time, I suppose," said she.

'"N-no, not exactly."

'"What?  How low you talk, Tony."

'"Yes--I've a kind of hoarseness.  I said, not exactly."

'"I suppose you mean to?"

'"Well, as to that--"  His eyes rested on her face, and hers on his.  He
wondered how he could have been such a fool as not to follow up Hannah.
"My sweet Hannah!" he bursts out, taking her hand, not being really able
to help it, and forgetting Milly and Unity, and all the world besides.
"Settled it?  I don't think I have!"

'"Hark!" says Hannah.

'"What?" says Tony, letting go her hand.

'"Surely I heard a sort of little screaming squeak under those sacks?
Why, you've been carrying corn, and there's mice in this waggon, I
declare!"  She began to haul up the tails of her gown.

'"Oh no; 'tis the axle," said Tony in an assuring way.  "It do go like
that sometimes in dry weather."

'"Perhaps it was . . . Well, now, to be quite honest, dear Tony, do you
like her better than me?  Because--because, although I've held off so
independent, I'll own at last that I do like 'ee, Tony, to tell the
truth; and I wouldn't say no if you asked me--you know what."

'Tony was so won over by this pretty offering mood of a girl who had been
quite the reverse (Hannah had a backward way with her at times, if you
can mind) that he just glanced behind, and then whispered very soft, "I
haven't quite promised her, and I think I can get out of it, and ask you
that question you speak of."

'"Throw over Milly?--all to marry me!  How delightful!" broke out Hannah,
quite loud, clapping her hands.

'At this there was a real squeak--an angry, spiteful squeak, and
afterward a long moan, as if something had broke its heart, and a
movement of the empty sacks.

'"Something's there!" said Hannah, starting up.

'"It's nothing, really," says Tony in a soothing voice, and praying
inwardly for a way out of this.  "I wouldn't tell 'ee at first, because I
wouldn't frighten 'ee.  But, Hannah, I've really a couple of ferrets in a
bag under there, for rabbiting, and they quarrel sometimes.  I don't wish
it knowed, as 'twould be called poaching.  Oh, they can't get out, bless
ye--you are quite safe!  And--and--what a fine day it is, isn't it,
Hannah, for this time of year?  Be you going to market next Saturday?  How
is your aunt now?"  And so on, says Tony, to keep her from talking any
more about love in Milly's hearing.

'But he found his work cut out for him, and wondering again how he should
get out of this ticklish business, he looked about for a chance.  Nearing
home he saw his father in a field not far off, holding up his hand as if
he wished to speak to Tony.

'"Would you mind taking the reins a moment, Hannah," he said, much
relieved, "while I go and find out what father wants?"

'She consented, and away he hastened into the field, only too glad to get
breathing time.  He found that his father was looking at him with rather
a stern eye.

'"Come, come, Tony," says old Mr. Kytes, as soon as his son was alongside
him, "this won't do, you know."

'"What?" says Tony.

'"Why, if you mean to marry Milly Richards, do it, and there's an end
o't.  But don't go driving about the country with Jolliver's daughter and
making a scandal.  I won't have such things done."

'"I only asked her--that is, she asked me, to ride home."

'"She?  Why, now, if it had been Milly, 'twould have been quite proper;
but you and Hannah Jolliver going about by yourselves--"

'"Milly's there too, father."

'"Milly?  Where?"

'"Under the corn-sacks!  Yes, the truth is, father, I've got rather into
a nunny-watch, I'm afeard!  Unity Sallet is there too--yes, at the other
end, under the tarpaulin.  All three are in that waggon, and what to do
with 'em I know no more than the dead!  The best plan is, as I'm
thinking, to speak out loud and plain to one of 'em before the rest, and
that will settle it; not but what 'twill cause 'em to kick up a bit of a
miff, for certain.  Now which would you marry, father, if you was in my
place?"

'"Whichever of 'em did _not_ ask to ride with thee."

'"That was Milly, I'm bound to say, as she only mounted by my invitation.
But Milly--"

"Then stick to Milly, she's the best . . . But look at that!"

'His father pointed toward the waggon.  "She can't hold that horse in.
You shouldn't have left the reins in her hands.  Run on and take the
horse's head, or there'll be some accident to them maids!"

'Tony's horse, in fact, in spite of Hannah's tugging at the reins, had
started on his way at a brisk walking pace, being very anxious to get
back to the stable, for he had had a long day out.  Without another word
Tony rushed away from his father to overtake the horse.

'Now of all things that could have happened to wean him from Milly there
was nothing so powerful as his father's recommending her.  No; it could
not be Milly, after all.  Hannah must be the one, since he could not
marry all three.  This he thought while running after the waggon.  But
queer things were happening inside it.

'It was, of course, Milly who had screamed under the sack-bags, being
obliged to let off her bitter rage and shame in that way at what Tony was
saying, and never daring to show, for very pride and dread o' being
laughed at, that she was in hiding.  She became more and more restless,
and in twisting herself about, what did she see but another woman's foot
and white stocking close to her head.  It quite frightened her, not
knowing that Unity Sallet was in the waggon likewise.  But after the
fright was over she determined to get to the bottom of all this, and she
crept and crept along the bed of the waggon, under the tarpaulin, like a
snake, when lo and behold she came face to face with Unity.

'"Well, if this isn't disgraceful!" says Milly in a raging whisper to
Unity.

'"'Tis," says Unity, "to see you hiding in a young man's waggon like
this, and no great character belonging to either of ye!"

'"Mind what you are saying!" replied Milly, getting louder.  "I am
engaged to be married to him, and haven't I a right to be here?  What
right have you, I should like to know?  What has he been promising you?  A
pretty lot of nonsense, I expect!  But what Tony says to other women is
all mere wind, and no concern to me!"

'"Don't you be too sure!" says Unity.  "He's going to have Hannah, and
not you, nor me either; I could hear that."

'Now at these strange voices sounding from under the cloth Hannah was
thunderstruck a'most into a swound; and it was just at this time that the
horse moved on.  Hannah tugged away wildly, not knowing what she was
doing; and as the quarrel rose louder and louder Hannah got so horrified
that she let go the reins altogether.  The horse went on at his own pace,
and coming to the corner where we turn round to drop down the hill to
Lower Longpuddle he turned too quick, the off wheels went up the bank,
the waggon rose sideways till it was quite on edge upon the near axles,
and out rolled the three maidens into the road in a heap.

'When Tony came up, frightened and breathless, he was relieved enough to
see that neither of his darlings was hurt, beyond a few scratches from
the brambles of the hedge.  But he was rather alarmed when he heard how
they were going on at one another.

'"Don't ye quarrel, my dears--don't ye!" says he, taking off his hat out
of respect to 'em.  And then he would have kissed them all round, as fair
and square as a man could, but they were in too much of a taking to let
him, and screeched and sobbed till they was quite spent.

'"Now I'll speak out honest, because I ought to," says Tony, as soon as
he could get heard.  "And this is the truth," says he.  "I've asked
Hannah to be mine, and she is willing, and we are going to put up the
banns next--"

'Tony had not noticed that Hannah's father was coming up behind, nor had
he noticed that Hannah's face was beginning to bleed from the scratch of
a bramble.  Hannah had seen her father, and had run to him, crying worse
than ever.

'"My daughter is _not_ willing, sir!" says Mr. Jolliver hot and strong.
"Be you willing, Hannah?  I ask ye to have spirit enough to refuse him,
if yer virtue is left to 'ee and you run no risk?"

'"She's as sound as a bell for me, that I'll swear!" says Tony, flaring
up.  "And so's the others, come to that, though you may think it an
onusual thing in me!"

'"I have spirit, and I do refuse him!" says Hannah, partly because her
father was there, and partly, too, in a tantrum because of the discovery,
and the scratch on her face.  "Little did I think when I was so soft with
him just now that I was talking to such a false deceiver!"

'"What, you won't have me, Hannah?" says Tony, his jaw hanging down like
a dead man's.

'"Never--I would sooner marry no--nobody at all!" she gasped out, though
with her heart in her throat, for she would not have refused Tony if he
had asked her quietly, and her father had not been there, and her face
had not been scratched by the bramble.  And having said that, away she
walked upon her father's arm, thinking and hoping he would ask her again.

'Tony didn't know what to say next.  Milly was sobbing her heart out; but
as his father had strongly recommended her he couldn't feel inclined that
way.  So he turned to Unity.

'"Well, will you, Unity dear, be mine?" he says.

'"Take her leavings?  Not I!" says Unity.  "I'd scorn it!"  And away
walks Unity Sallet likewise, though she looked back when she'd gone some
way, to see if he was following her.

'So there at last were left Milly and Tony by themselves, she crying in
watery streams, and Tony looking like a tree struck by lightning.

'"Well, Milly," he says at last, going up to her, "it do seem as if fate
had ordained that it should be you and I, or nobody.  And what must be
must be, I suppose.  Hey, Milly?"

'"If you like, Tony.  You didn't really mean what you said to them?"

'"Not a word of it!" declares Tony, bringing down his fist upon his palm.

'And then he kissed her, and put the waggon to rights, and they mounted
together; and their banns were put up the very next Sunday.  I was not
able to go to their wedding, but it was a rare party they had, by all
account.  Everybody in Longpuddle was there almost; you among the rest, I
think, Mr. Flaxton?'  The speaker turned to the parish clerk.

'I was,' said Mr. Flaxton.  'And that party was the cause of a very
curious change in some other people's affairs; I mean in Steve Hardcome's
and his cousin James's.'

'Ah! the Hardcomes,' said the stranger.  'How familiar that name is to
me!  What of them?'

The clerk cleared his throat and began:--


THE HISTORY OF THE HARDCOMES


'Yes, Tony's was the very best wedding-randy that ever I was at; and I've
been at a good many, as you may suppose'--turning to the newly-arrived
one--'having as a church-officer, the privilege to attend all
christening, wedding, and funeral parties--such being our Wessex custom.

''Twas on a frosty night in Christmas week, and among the folk invited
were the said Hardcomes o' Climmerston--Steve and James--first cousins,
both of them small farmers, just entering into business on their own
account.  With them came, as a matter of course, their intended wives,
two young women of the neighbourhood, both very pretty and sprightly
maidens, and numbers of friends from Abbot's-Cernel, and Weatherbury, and
Mellstock, and I don't know where--a regular houseful.

'The kitchen was cleared of furniture for dancing, and the old folk
played at "Put" and "All-fours" in the parlour, though at last they gave
that up to join in the dance.  The top of the figure was by the large
front window of the room, and there were so many couples that the lower
part of the figure reached through the door at the back, and into the
darkness of the out-house; in fact, you couldn't see the end of the row
at all, and 'twas never known exactly how long that dance was, the lowest
couples being lost among the faggots and brushwood in the out-house.

'When we had danced a few hours, and the crowns of we taller men were
swelling into lumps with bumping the beams of the ceiling, the first
fiddler laid down his fiddle-bow, and said he should play no more, for he
wished to dance.  And in another hour the second fiddler laid down his,
and said he wanted to dance too; so there was only the third fiddler
left, and he was a' old, veteran man, very weak in the wrist.  However,
he managed to keep up a faltering tweedle-dee; but there being no chair
in the room, and his knees being as weak as his wrists, he was obliged to
sit upon as much of the little corner-table as projected beyond the
corner-cupboard fixed over it, which was not a very wide seat for a man
advanced in years.

'Among those who danced most continually were the two engaged couples, as
was natural to their situation.  Each pair was very well matched, and
very unlike the other.  James Hardcome's intended was called Emily Darth,
and both she and James were gentle, nice-minded, in-door people, fond of
a quiet life.  Steve and his chosen, named Olive Pawle, were different;
they were of a more bustling nature, fond of racketing about and seeing
what was going on in the world.  The two couples had arranged to get
married on the same day, and that not long thence; Tony's wedding being a
sort of stimulant, as is often the case; I've noticed it professionally
many times.

'They danced with such a will as only young people in that stage of
courtship can dance; and it happened that as the evening wore on James
had for his partner Stephen's plighted one, Olive, at the same time that
Stephen was dancing with James's Emily.  It was noticed that in spite o'
the exchange the young men seemed to enjoy the dance no less than before.
By and by they were treading another tune in the same changed order as we
had noticed earlier, and though at first each one had held the other's
mistress strictly at half-arm's length, lest there should be shown any
objection to too close quarters by the lady's proper man, as time passed
there was a little more closeness between 'em; and presently a little
more closeness still.

'The later it got the more did each of the two cousins dance with the
wrong young girl, and the tighter did he hold her to his side as he
whirled her round; and, what was very remarkable, neither seemed to mind
what the other was doing.  The party began to draw towards its end, and I
saw no more that night, being one of the first to leave, on account of my
morning's business.  But I learnt the rest of it from those that knew.

'After finishing a particularly warming dance with the changed partners,
as I've mentioned, the two young men looked at one another, and in a
moment or two went out into the porch together.

'"James," says Steve, "what were you thinking of when you were dancing
with my Olive?"

'"Well," said James, "perhaps what you were thinking of when you were
dancing with my Emily."

'"I was thinking," said Steve, with some hesitation, "that I wouldn't
mind changing for good and all!"

'"It was what I was feeling likewise," said James.

'"I willingly agree to it, if you think we could manage it."

'"So do I.  But what would the girls say?"

'"'Tis my belief," said Steve, "that they wouldn't particularly object.
Your Emily clung as close to me as if she already belonged to me, dear
girl."

'"And your Olive to me," says James.  "I could feel her heart beating
like a clock."

'Well, they agreed to put it to the girls when they were all four walking
home together.  And they did so.  When they parted that night the
exchange was decided on--all having been done under the hot excitement of
that evening's dancing.  Thus it happened that on the following Sunday
morning, when the people were sitting in church with mouths wide open to
hear the names published as they had expected, there was no small
amazement to hear them coupled the wrong way, as it seemed.  The
congregation whispered, and thought the parson had made a mistake; till
they discovered that his reading of the names was verily the true way.  As
they had decided, so they were married, each one to the other's original
property.

'Well, the two couples lived on for a year or two ordinarily enough, till
the time came when these young people began to grow a little less warm to
their respective spouses, as is the rule of married life; and the two
cousins wondered more and more in their hearts what had made 'em so mad
at the last moment to marry crosswise as they did, when they might have
married straight, as was planned by nature, and as they had fallen in
love.  'Twas Tony's party that had done _it_, plain enough, and they half
wished they had never gone there.  James, being a quiet, fireside,
perusing man, felt at times a wide gap between himself and Olive, his
wife, who loved riding and driving and out-door jaunts to a degree;
while Steve, who was always knocking about hither and thither, had a very
domestic wife, who worked samplers, and made hearthrugs, scarcely ever
wished to cross the threshold, and only drove out with him to please him.

'However, they said very little about this mismating to any of their
acquaintances, though sometimes Steve would look at James's wife and
sigh, and James would look at Steve's wife and do the same.  Indeed, at
last the two men were frank enough towards each other not to mind
mentioning it quietly to themselves, in a long-faced, sorry-smiling,
whimsical sort of way, and would shake their heads together over their
foolishness in upsetting a well-considered choice on the strength of an
hour's fancy in the whirl and wildness of a dance.  Still, they were
sensible and honest young fellows enough, and did their best to make
shift with their lot as they had arranged it, and not to repine at what
could not now be altered or mended.

'So things remained till one fine summer day they went for their yearly
little outing together, as they had made it their custom to do for a long
while past.  This year they chose Budmouth-Regis as the place to spend
their holiday in; and off they went in their best clothes at nine o'clock
in the morning.

'When they had reached Budmouth-Regis they walked two and two along the
shore--their new boots going squeakity-squash upon the clammy velvet
sands.  I can seem to see 'em now!  Then they looked at the ships in the
harbour; and then went up to the Look-out; and then had dinner at an inn;
and then again walked two and two, squeakity-squash, upon the velvet
sands.  As evening drew on they sat on one of the public seats upon the
Esplanade, and listened to the band; and then they said "What shall we do
next?"

'"Of all things," said Olive (Mrs. James Hardcome, that is), "I should
like to row in the bay!  We could listen to the music from the water as
well as from here, and have the fun of rowing besides."

'"The very thing; so should I," says Stephen, his tastes being always
like hers.

Here the clerk turned to the curate.

'But you, sir, know the rest of the strange particulars of that strange
evening of their lives better than anybody else, having had much of it
from their own lips, which I had not; and perhaps you'll oblige the
gentleman?'

'Certainly, if it is wished,' said the curate.  And he took up the
clerk's tale:--

* * * * *

'Stephen's wife hated the sea, except from land, and couldn't bear the
thought of going into a boat.  James, too, disliked the water, and said
that for his part he would much sooner stay on and listen to the band in
the seat they occupied, though he did not wish to stand in his wife's way
if she desired a row.  The end of the discussion was that James and his
cousin's wife Emily agreed to remain where they were sitting and enjoy
the music, while they watched the other two hire a boat just beneath, and
take their water-excursion of half an hour or so, till they should choose
to come back and join the sitters on the Esplanade; when they would all
start homeward together.

'Nothing could have pleased the other two restless ones better than this
arrangement; and Emily and James watched them go down to the boatman
below and choose one of the little yellow skiffs, and walk carefully out
upon the little plank that was laid on trestles to enable them to get
alongside the craft.  They saw Stephen hand Olive in, and take his seat
facing her; when they were settled they waved their hands to the couple
watching them, and then Stephen took the pair of sculls and pulled off to
the tune beat by the band, she steering through the other boats skimming
about, for the sea was as smooth as glass that evening, and
pleasure-seekers were rowing everywhere.

'"How pretty they look moving on, don't they?" said Emily to James (as
I've been assured).  "They both enjoy it equally.  In everything their
likings are the same."

'"That's true," said James.

'"They would have made a handsome pair if they had married," said she.

'"Yes," said he.  "'Tis a pity we should have parted 'em"

'"Don't talk of that, James," said she.  "For better or for worse we
decided to do as we did, and there's an end of it."

'They sat on after that without speaking, side by side, and the band
played as before; the people strolled up and down; and Stephen and Olive
shrank smaller and smaller as they shot straight out to sea.  The two on
shore used to relate how they saw Stephen stop rowing a moment, and take
off his coat to get at his work better; but James's wife sat quite still
in the stern, holding the tiller-ropes by which she steered the boat.
When they had got very small indeed she turned her head to shore.

'"She is waving her handkerchief to us," said Stephen's wife, who
thereupon pulled out her own, and waved it as a return signal.

'The boat's course had been a little awry while Mrs. James neglected her
steering to wave her handkerchief to her husband and Mrs. Stephen; but
now the light skiff went straight onward again, and they could soon see
nothing more of the two figures it contained than Olive's light mantle
and Stephen's white shirt sleeves behind.

'The two on the shore talked on.  "'Twas very curious--our changing
partners at Tony Kytes's wedding," Emily declared.  "Tony was of a fickle
nature by all account, and it really seemed as if his character had
infected us that night.  Which of you two was it that first proposed not
to marry as we were engaged?"

'"H'm--I can't remember at this moment," says James.  "We talked it over,
you know; and no sooner said than done."

'"'Twas the dancing," said she.  "People get quite crazy sometimes in a
dance."

'"They do," he owned.

'"James--do you think they care for one another still?" asks Mrs.
Stephen.

'James Hardcome mused and admitted that perhaps a little tender feeling
might flicker up in their hearts for a moment now and then.  "Still,
nothing of any account," he said.

'"I sometimes think that Olive is in Steve's mind a good deal," murmurs
Mrs. Stephen; "particularly when she pleases his fancy by riding past our
window at a gallop on one of the draught-horses . . . I never could do
anything of that sort; I could never get over my fear of a horse."

'"And I am no horseman, though I pretend to be on her account," murmured
James Hardcome.  "But isn't it almost time for them to turn and sweep
round to the shore, as the other boating folk have done?  I wonder what
Olive means by steering away straight to the horizon like that?  She has
hardly swerved from a direct line seaward since they started."

'"No doubt they are talking, and don't think of where they are going,"
suggests Stephen's wife.

'"Perhaps so," said James.  "I didn't know Steve could row like that."

'"O yes," says she.  "He often comes here on business, and generally has
a pull round the bay."

'"I can hardly see the boat or them," says James again; "and it is
getting dark."

'The heedless pair afloat now formed a mere speck in the films of the
coming night, which thickened apace, till it completely swallowed up
their distant shapes.  They had disappeared while still following the
same straight course away from the world of land-livers, as if they were
intending to drop over the sea-edge into space, and never return to earth
again.

'The two on the shore continued to sit on, punctually abiding by their
agreement to remain on the same spot till the others returned.  The
Esplanade lamps were lit one by one, the bandsmen folded up their stands
and departed, the yachts in the bay hung out their riding lights, and the
little boats came back to shore one after another, their hirers walking
on to the sands by the plank they had climbed to go afloat; but among
these Stephen and Olive did not appear.

'"What a time they are!" said Emily.  "I am getting quite chilly.  I did
not expect to have to sit so long in the evening air."

'Thereupon James Hardcome said that he did not require his overcoat, and
insisted on lending it to her.

'He wrapped it round Emily's shoulders.

'"Thank you, James," she said.  "How cold Olive must be in that thin
jacket!"

'He said he was thinking so too.  "Well, they are sure to be quite close
at hand by this time, though we can't see 'em.  The boats are not all in
yet.  Some of the rowers are fond of paddling along the shore to finish
out their hour of hiring."

'"Shall we walk by the edge of the water," said she, "to see if we can
discover them?"

'He assented, reminding her that they must not lose sight of the seat,
lest the belated pair should return and miss them, and be vexed that they
had not kept the appointment.

'They walked a sentry beat up and down the sands immediately opposite the
seat; and still the others did not come.  James Hardcome at last went to
the boatman, thinking that after all his wife and cousin might have come
in under shadow of the dusk without being perceived, and might have
forgotten the appointment at the bench.

'"All in?" asked James.

'"All but one boat," said the lessor.  "I can't think where that couple
is keeping to.  They might run foul of something or other in the dark."

'Again Stephen's wife and Olive's husband waited, with more and more
anxiety.  But no little yellow boat returned.  Was it possible they could
have landed further down the Esplanade?

'"It may have been done to escape paying," said the boat-owner.  "But
they didn't look like people who would do that."

'James Hardcome knew that he could found no hope on such a reason as
that.  But now, remembering what had been casually discussed between
Steve and himself about their wives from time to time, he admitted for
the first time the possibility that their old tenderness had been revived
by their face-to-face position more strongly than either had anticipated
at starting--the excursion having been so obviously undertaken for the
pleasure of the performance only,--and that they had landed at some steps
he knew of further down toward the pier, to be longer alone together.

'Still he disliked to harbour the thought, and would not mention its
existence to his companion.  He merely said to her, "Let us walk further
on."

'They did so, and lingered between the boat-stage and the pier till
Stephen Hardcome's wife was uneasy, and was obliged to accept James's
offered arm.  Thus the night advanced.  Emily was presently so worn out
by fatigue that James felt it necessary to conduct her home; there was,
too, a remote chance that the truants had landed in the harbour on the
other side of the town, or elsewhere, and hastened home in some
unexpected way, in the belief that their consorts would not have waited
so long.

'However, he left a direction in the town that a lookout should be kept,
though this was arranged privately, the bare possibility of an elopement
being enough to make him reticent; and, full of misgivings, the two
remaining ones hastened to catch the last train out of Budmouth-Regis;
and when they got to Casterbridge drove back to Upper Longpuddle.'

'Along this very road as we do now,' remarked the parish clerk.

'To be sure--along this very road,' said the curate.  'However, Stephen
and Olive were not at their homes; neither had entered the village since
leaving it in the morning.  Emily and James Hardcome went to their
respective dwellings to snatch a hasty night's rest, and at daylight the
next morning they drove again to Casterbridge and entered the Budmouth
train, the line being just opened.

'Nothing had been heard of the couple there during this brief absence.  In
the course of a few hours some young men testified to having seen such a
man and woman rowing in a frail hired craft, the head of the boat kept
straight to sea; they had sat looking in each other's faces as if they
were in a dream, with no consciousness of what they were doing, or
whither they were steering.  It was not till late that day that more
tidings reached James's ears.  The boat had been found drifting bottom
upward a long way from land.  In the evening the sea rose somewhat, and a
cry spread through the town that two bodies were cast ashore in Lullstead
Bay, several miles to the eastward.  They were brought to Budmouth, and
inspection revealed them to be the missing pair.  It was said that they
had been found tightly locked in each other's arms, his lips upon hers,
their features still wrapt in the same calm and dream-like repose which
had been observed in their demeanour as they had glided along.

'Neither James nor Emily questioned the original motives of the
unfortunate man and woman in putting to sea.  They were both above
suspicion as to intention.  Whatever their mutual feelings might have led
them on to, underhand behaviour was foreign to the nature of either.
Conjecture pictured that they might have fallen into tender reverie while
gazing each into a pair of eyes that had formerly flashed for him and her
alone, and, unwilling to avow what their mutual sentiments were, they had
continued thus, oblivious of time and space, till darkness suddenly
overtook them far from land.  But nothing was truly known.  It had been
their destiny to die thus.  The two halves, intended by Nature to make
the perfect whole, had failed in that result during their lives, though
"in their death they were not divided."  Their bodies were brought home,
and buried on one day.  I remember that, on looking round the churchyard
while reading the service, I observed nearly all the parish at their
funeral.'

'It was so, sir,' said the clerk.

'The remaining two,' continued the curate (whose voice had grown husky
while relating the lovers' sad fate), 'were a more thoughtful and far-
seeing, though less romantic, couple than the first.  They were now
mutually bereft of a companion, and found themselves by this accident in
a position to fulfil their destiny according to Nature's plan and their
own original and calmly-formed intention.  James Hardcome took Emily to
wife in the course of a year and a half; and the marriage proved in every
respect a happy one.  I solemnized the service, Hardcome having told me,
when he came to give notice of the proposed wedding, the story of his
first wife's loss almost word for word as I have told it to you.'

'And are they living in Longpuddle still?' asked the new-comer.

'O no, sir,' interposed the clerk.  'James has been dead these dozen
years, and his mis'ess about six or seven.  They had no children.  William
Privett used to be their odd man till he died.'

'Ah--William Privett!  He dead too?--dear me!' said the other.  'All
passed away!'

'Yes, sir.  William was much older than I.  He'd ha' been over eighty if
he had lived till now.'

'There was something very strange about William's death--very strange
indeed!' sighed a melancholy man in the back of the van.  It was the
seedsman's father, who had hitherto kept silence.

'And what might that have been?' asked Mr. Lackland.
