
Good Evening (sirens in the background)
I'm reporting live from Sunset Boulevard
Where many excited fans have gathered with candles
(crowd starts chanting "Tupac")
Awaiting the much anticipated release, of Tupac Shakur's latest album, Better Dayz
This is yet another post-humorous release by Tupac
Which, raises the question
Where are these songs coming from?
It's interesting how, the message in these songs
Is still relevant today
Even in his death, he's touching people with his lyrics
I can feel the energy in the air, as they count down to midnight
When the album will officially be released
Oh, hold on, I, think they're starting to countdown now

A coward dies a thousand deaths
A soldier dies but once

They say pussy and paper is poetry power and pistols
Plotting on murdering motherfuckers 'fore they get you
Picturing pitiful punk niggas copping pleas
Puffin weed as I position myself to clock G's
My enemies scatter in suicidal situations
Never to witness the wicked shit that they was facing
Pockets is packed with presidents, pursue your riches
Evading the player hating tricks, while hitting switches
Bitches is bad-mouth, cause brawling motherfuckers is bold
But y'all some hoes, the game should be sewed
I'm sick of psychotic society somebody save me
Addicted to drama so even mama couldn't raise me
Even the preacher and all my teachers couldn't reach me
I run in the streets and puffin weed wit my peeps
I'm ducking the cop, I hit the weed as I'm clutching my glock
Niggas is hot when I hit the block, what if I die tonight

If I die tonight
If I die tonight
If I die tonight
"Tonight's the night I get in some shit"

Polishing pistols prepare for battle pass the pump
When I get to popping niggas is dropping then they done
Calling the coroner come collect the fucking corpse
He got it by killer, preoccupied with being boss
Revenge is the method, whenever stepping keep a weapon close
Adversaries are overdosed over deadly notes
Jealous niggas and broke bitches equal packed jails
Hit the block and fill your pockets making crack sales
Picture perfection pursuing paper with a passion
Visions of prisons for all the pussies that I blasted
Running with criminals individuals with no remorse
Try to stop me my pistol posse's using deadly force
In my brain all I can think about is fame
The police know my name, a different game, ain't a thing changed
I'm seeing cemetery photos of my peers
Conversatin' like they still here, if I die tonight


Pussy and paper is poetry power and pistols
Plotting on murdering motherfuckers 'fore they get you
Pray to the heavens three-fifty-sevens to the sky
And I hope I'm forgiven for Thug Living when I die
I wonder if heaven got a ghetto for Thug niggas
A stress free life and a spot for drug dealers
Pissing while practicing how to pimp and be a player
Overdose of a dick, while drinking liquor when I lay her
Pistol whipping these simps, for being petrified and lame
Disrespecting the game, praying for punishment and pain
Going insane, never die, live eternal, who shall I fear?
Don't shed a tear for me nigga I ain't happy here
I hope they bury me and send me to my rest
Headlines reading murdered to death, my last breath
Take a look picture a crook on his last stand
Motherfuckers don't understand, if I die tonight


Can you picture my prophecy?
Stress in the city, the cops is hot for me
The projects is full of bullets, the bodies is droppin
There ain't no stoppin me
Constantly movin while makin millions
Witnessin killings, leavin dead bodies in abandoned buildings
Carries to children cause they're illin
Addicted to killin and the appeal from the cap peelin
Without feelin, but will they last or be blasted?
Hard headed bastard
Maybe he'll listen in his casket -- the aftermath
More bodies being buried -- I'm losing my homies in a hurry
They're relocating to the cemetary
Got me worried, stressin, my vision's blurried
The question is will I live? No one in the world loves me
I'm headed for danger, don't trust strangers
Put one in the chamber whenever I'm feelin this anger
Don't wanna make excuses, cause this is how it is
What's the use unless we're shootin no one notices the youth
It's just me against the world baby

Could somebody help me? I'm out here all by myself
See ladies in stones, Baby Capone's, livin wealthy
Pictures of my birth on this Earth is what I'm dreamin
Seein Daddy's semen, full of crooked demons, already crazy
and screamin I guess them nightmares as a child
had me scared, but left me prepared for a while
Is there another route? For a crooked Outlaw
Veteran, a villain, a young thug, who one day shall fall

Everday there's mo'death, and plus I'm dough-less
I'm seein mo' reasons for me to proceed with thievin
Scheme on the scheming and leave they peeps grieving
Cause ain't no bucks to stack up, my nuts is backed up
I'm bout to act up, go load the Mac up, now watch me klacka
Tried makin fat cuts, but yo it ain't workin
And Evil's lurking, I can see him smirking
when I gets to pervin, so what?
Go put some work in, and make my mail, makin sales
Risking 25 with a 'L', but oh well


With all this extra stressin
The question I wonder is after death, after my last breath
When will I finally get to rest? Through this supression
they punish the people that's askin questions
And those that possess, steal from the ones without possesions
The message I stress: to make it stop study your lessons
Don't settle for less - even the genius asks-es questions
Be grateful for blessings
Don't ever change, keep your essence
The power is in the people and politics we address
Always do your best, don't let the pressure make you panic
And when you get stranded
And things don't go the way you planned it
Dreamin of riches, in a position of makin a difference
Politicians and hypocrites, they don't wanna listen
If I'm insane, it's the fame made a brother change
It wasn't nuttin like the game
It's just me against the world

Heh, hahahahahahah
That's right
I know it seem hard sometimes but uhh
Remember one thing
Through every dark night, there's a bright day after that
So no matter how hard it get, stick your chest out
Keep your head up, and handle it


I shall not fear no man, but God
Though I walk through tha valley of death
I shed so many tears
Please God walk with me...

Back in Elementry, I thrived on misery
Left me alone I grew up amongst a dying breed
Inside mind couldn't find a place ta rest
Untill I got that Thug Life tatted on my chest
Tell me can ya feel me ?
I'm not liven in tha Past, You wanna last
Be tha first ta blast, remember Kato
No longer with us he's deseased
Call on tha sirens, I seem him murdered in tha streets
Now rest in peace
Is there heaven for a 'G' ?
Remember me, so many homies in the cemetary
Shed so many tears

Lord
I suffer through tha years
And shed so many tears
Lord
I lost so many peers and shed so many tears

Now that i'm strugglin' in this business
By any means, label me greedy gettin green
But seldom seen
And fuck tha world cuz i'm cursed
I'm havin visions of leaven here in a hurse
God can ya feel me?
Take me away from all tha pressure and all tha pain
Show me some happiness again
I'm goin' blind
I spend my time in this cell, ain't livin' well
I know my destiny is hell, where did I fail ?
My life is in denial
And when I Die, babtised in Eternal Fire
Shed so many tears...

Lord
I suffer through tha years
And shed so many tears
Lord
I lost so many peers and shed so many tears

Now i'm lost and i'm weary
So many tears, i'm suicidal, so don't stand near me
My every move is a compilated step
Ta bring me closer
To embrace an early death now there's nothing left
There was no mercy on tha streets
I couldn't rest
I'm barely standing, bout to go to pieces, screaming peace
And though my soul was deleted, I couldn't see it
I had my mind full of demons tryin' ta break free
They planted seeds and they hatched sparking tha flame
Inside my brain like a match, such a dirty game
No memories, just misery
Painting a picture of my enemies killing me in my sleep
Will I survive till' tha morning ta see tha sun
Please lord forgive me for my sins
Cause here I come...

Lord
I suffer through tha years
And shed so many tears
God
I lost so many peers and

Lord knows i've tried, been a witness ta homicide
Drive-bys taken lives, little kids die
Wonder why as I walk by
Broken hearted as I glance at tha chaulk line, gettin' high
This ain't tha life for me
I wanna change
But ain't no future right for me
I'm stuck in tha game
I'm trapped inside a maze
See this Tangaray influenced me ta gettin crazy
Disillusioned lately
I've been really wanting babies
So I could see a part of me that wasn't always shady
Don't trust my lady
Cause she's a product of this poison, i'm hearen noises
Think she's fucken on my boys, can't take no more
I'm fallin' to tha floor
Beggin' for tha Lord ta let me in Heavens door
I shed so many tears...

Lord
I lost so many peers
And shed so many tears
I lost so many peers and shed so many tears
I suffered through tha years and shed so many tears

Yo Mo Bee main, drop that shit!

Heyyyy! Heyy-ayyaahhyy

You know what time, boo-yaow
I know it's time for you
So grab one by the hand youknowhatI'msayin
And uhh, throw up that finger
Ay yo yo yo throw y'all fingers up!
Thug style baby, Thug style y'know?

Tell me baby are you lonely? Don't wanna rush ya
I can help ya if ya only, let me touch ya
If I'm wrong love tell me, cause I get caught up
and the life I live is Hell see, I never thought I'd see
the day when I would calm down, you ain't heard
I've been known to clown and Get Around, that's my word
See you walkin and you lookin good, yes indeed
Got a body like a sex fiend, you're killin me
witcha attitude to match right, don't be phony
cause I hate when you act like, you don't know me
I've be stressin in the spotlight, I want the fame
but the industry's a lot like, a crack game
Ain't no time for commitment, I gotta go
Can't be wit you every minute miss, another show
And even though I'm known for my one night stand
Look here, I wanna be an honest man, but temptations go...

Heyyyy! Heyy-ayyaahhyy

Throw up the finger!
And all my homies go..
Give them the finger!
Ya know what baby it's like

I know you've been searchin for someone
To make you happy, and get the job done
You say you need it, a man with money
But I can't be there, and will you still care

Will I cheat or will I be committed, heaven knows
Gettin weak and I wanna hit it, so here I go
in my ride and I'm all in, gettin high
I can hear the people callin, I'm passin by
Everybody knows I'm ball-in, and to God
Gotta keep myself from fall-in, but it's hard
All the cuties know I'm under pressure, what do I do
Gettin shaky when she pull the dress up, and say it's cool
Should I stroke or should I wait a while, you decide
If you tell me that you don't want it, that's a lie
Move close and let me whisper, some dirty words
in your ears as I kiss ya, on every curve
Slow down baby don't rush, I like it slow
Can't hold it any longer, so let it go
Open the gates, do you wanna fall up in heaven
Don't worry, I let myself in, all I heard was...

Heyyyy! Heyy-ayyaahhyy

Give em the finger!
All my homies go..
Throw your fingers up!
That's just the Thug in me girl, you know
Peep out all my homies, y'know, it's like

I know you've been searchin for someone
To make you happy, and get the job done
You say you need it, a man with money
But I can't be there, and will you still care


A lot of people think it's easy, to settle down
Got a woman that'll please me, in every town
I don't wanna but I gotta do it, the temptation
got me ready to release the fluid, sensation
sit down and conversate like you know me, take my hand
Cause even Thugs get lonely, understand
Even the hardest of my homies need attention
Catch you blowin up the telephone, reminiscin
I wanna take you to the movies, and the park
Let's find a spot for you to do me, in the dark
Now that it's passion, hold me tight
Don't need lights, I can see you by the moonlight
I know your man ain't lovin you right
You're lonely and depressed you need a Thug in your life
Enough talkin, you want me to leave, I'll get to walkin
See you later, cause baby I'm a player, and all I heard was

Heyyyy! Heyy-ayyaahhyy

Give em the finger
And all my homies go..
yo this how we gonna do this in the nine-trey y'know?
Throw your fingers up
Y'know?
They gonna peep this, this how we run game on you

Oh, you tink life is yours?
Life ain't na somethin you can rap with
Ooh come na ordinary game
Da game na somethin you can rap with
Me's a player you know?
I do not, play in no game
Me just, make money, dollars, everytime seen?

Now how can I explain how this game laced, plus with this fame
I got enemies do anything to break me, my attitude changed
Got to the point where I was driven, twenty-four/seven
Money's my mission, just tryin to make a livin
These busta tricks don't want no mail
They spendin they riches on skanless bail
who'll stay petrified in jail
It's hell, plus all the dealers want a meal ticket
Jealous-ass, playa-hatin but we still kick it
Always keep my eyes on the prize, watch the police
Seen so much murder, neighborhoods gettin no sleep
But still, I get my money on major, continuously
Communicatin through my pager, know me
Don't have no homies cause they jealous, I hustle solo
Cause when I'm broke I got no time for the fellas, listen
Ain't nothin poppin 'bout no work, I ain't no joke
Fuck what they say and get your dough
(Game's been good to me)
Heavy in the game

Who da bumba claat him a come try take mine?
Oooh, me see you rushin up
(Game's been good to me)
I throw 'im blood claat P.M. to A.M.
All, all da bumba come ya take dis ting
for ya take dis ting for joke?
(I don't care what it did to them
The game's been good to me)
Oh! Dat's right

Well lemme shoot some of this how heavy type of stuff..
Certain wanna stick to the game, yousea trick to the game
Waitin upon your turn, so when will you learn?
Ain't no turns given, be twistin and takin it
Puttin they sack down, then puttin they mack down
Me myself I hustle with finesse yes I'm an Oakland baller
Rule number one: check game, and fo' sho' you gon' respect game
Be yo' own, meanin buy yo' own dope
Cause that front is punk, somethin I never funked with
Be true to this game and this game will be true to you
That's real; disrespect, see what this here do to you
That jackin and robbin, despisin your homie
ain't healthy, endin up dead 'fore they get wealthy
But not me though, I'm sewin somethin major
so what I reap is boss -- that's why my public status is floss
Went from a, young gangsta livin residential
to a, young gangsta workin presidential
(Game's been good to me)

Me boy Tu-pac ALWAYS look good
You know that's true 'im look good every time
Ooh, war? Step up
(Game's been good to me)
Can yi know I'm servin up blood claat
playin yi games
Ooh, we take game, we WON
(I don't care what it did to them
The game's been good to me)
Any by now, all, yi haffa forget fi we WON
Everytime

I'm just a young black male, cursed since my birth
Had to turn to crack sales, if worse come to worse
Headed for them packed, jails, or maybe it's a hearse
My only way to stack mail, is out here doin dirt
Made my decisions do or die, been hustlin since junior high
No time for askin why, gettin high, gettin mine
Put away my nine, cause these times call for four-five sales
cause life is hell and everybody dies
What about these people I despise -- them loud talkin cowards
shootin guns into crowds, jeapordizin lives
Shoot em right between them thugz eyes, it's time to realize
follow the rules or follow them fools that die
Everybody's tryin to make the news, people confused
Quit tryin to be an O.G. and pay your dues
If you choose to apply yourself, go with the grain
and come the riches and the girls and the fame
Heavy in the game
(Game's been good to me)

Boy, ya nah bitch!
Major that's true we look good everytime
when we at Beers Diamond
and Tupac drives vintage car
(Game's been good to me)
And fi dem frame dem look good, oh no?
This whole world ya call on
gonna mass on a face
(I don't care what it did to them
The game's been good to me)
For any, section of bumba ras claat, oh!
Flush it! .. Oh!
Nobody wan come test me y'know
true dem we a drive pretty car
Wanna no part of any ting
and now you wan come drown a gun
But ya see we know, you haffa show 'im MAXIMUM respect
for when a blood claat run or when a pussy walk up
we look good everytime
Nuff dollars, DOLLARS
Y'know about dollars dem right?
But we nah talk no shit
We haffa walk de walk for we a talk, see it?
Cause action, action speak louder dan words
You know da record!
Don't blood claat ting at ALL


I smoke a blunt to take the pain out
And if I wasn't high, I'd probably try to blow my brains out
I'm hopeless, they shoulda killed me as a baby
And now they got me trapped in the storm, I'm goin crazy
Forgive me; they wanna see me in my casket
and if I don't blast I'll be the victim of them bastards
I'm loosin hope, they got me stressin, can the Lord forgive me
Got the spirit of a thug in me
Another sip of that drink, this Hennesey got me queasy
Don't wanna earl, young nigga take it easy
Picture your dreams on a triple beam, and it seems
don't underestimate the power of a fiend
To my homies on the block
slangin rocks with your glocks put this tape in your box
When you're runnin from the cops -- and never look back
If they could be black, then they would switch
Open fire on them busta-ass bitches, and Lord knows...

I wonder if the Lord will forgive me or bury me a G
I couldn't let my adversaries worry me
and every single day it's a test, wear a bulletproof vest
and still a nigga stressin over death
If I could choose when a nigga die, figure I'd
take a puff on the blunt, and let my trigga fly
When everyday it's another death, with every breath,
it's a constant threat, so watch yo' step!
You could be next if you want to, who do you run to?
Murderin niggaz, look what it's come to
My memories bring me misery, and life is hard
in the ghetto, it's insanity, I can't breath
Got me thinkin, what do Hell got?
Cause I done suffered so much, I'm feelin shell-shocked
And driveby's an everyday thang
I done lost too many homies to this motherfuckin game
and Lord knows...

One-time! One-time!
Fuck the five-oh cause they after me
Kill me if they could, I'll never let em capture me
Done lost too many niggaz to this gangbangin
Homies died in my arms, with his brains hangin, fucked up!
I had to tell him it was alright, and that's a lie
and he knew it when he shook and died, my God
Even though I know I'm wrong man
Hennesey make a nigga think he strong, man (heh heh)
I can't sleep, so I stay up, don't wanna fuck them bitches
Try to calm me down, I ain't givin up
I'm gettin lost in the weed, man, gettin high
Livin everday, like I'm gon' die (gon' die, gon' die)
I smoke a blunt to take the pain out, and if I wasn't high
probably try to blow my brains out
Lord knows...

You are appreciated.

When I was young me and my mama had beef
17 years old kicked out on the streets
Though back at the time I never thought I'd see her face
Ain't a woman alive that could take my mama's place
Suspended from school, scared to go home
I was a fool with the big boys, breakin' all the rules
Shed tears with my baby sister
Over the years we was poorer than the other little kids
And even though we had different daddies
The same drama, when things went wrong we blamed mama
I reminisce on the stress I caused, it was hell
Huggin' on my mama from a jail cell
And who'd think in elementary, hey I'd see the penitentiary
One day, runnin' from the police that's right
Mama catch me, put a whoopin' to my backside
And even as a crack fiend mama
You always was a black queen mama
I finally understand for a woman it ain't easy tryin' to raise a man
You always was committed, a poor single mother on welfare
Tell me how you did it, there's no way I can pay you back
But the plan is to show you that I understand.

You are appreciated.

Lady, don't ya know we love ya. (Dear Mama)
Sweet lady, place no one above ya. (You are appreciated)
Sweet lady, don't ya know we love ya.

Now ain't nobody tell us it was fair
No love for my daddy 'cause the coward wasn't there
He passed away and I didn't cry
'Cause my anger wouldn't let me feel for a stranger
They say I'm wrong and I'm heartless
But all along I was lookin' for a father, he was gone
I hung around with the thugs and even though they sold drugs
They showed a young brother love
I moved out and started really hangin'
I needed money of my own so I started slangin'
I ain't guilty 'cause even though I sell rocks
It feels good puttin' money in your mailbox
I love payin' rent when the rent's due
I hope you got the diamond necklace that I sent to you
'Cause when I was low you was there for me
You never left me alone because you cared for me
And I can see you comin' home after work, late
Your in the kitchen tryin' to fix us a hot plate
Just workin' with the scraps you was given
And mama made miracles every Thanksgiving
But now the road got rough, your alone
Tryin' to raise 2 bad kids on your own
And there's no way I can pay you back
But my plan is to show you that I understand.

You are appreciated.

Lady, don't ya know we love ya. (And dear Mama)
Sweet lady, place no one above ya. (You are appreciated)
Sweet lady, don't ya know we love ya.

Pour out some liquor and I reminisce
'Cause through the drama, I can always depend on my mama
And when it seems that I'm hopeless
You say the words that can get me back in focus
When I was sick as a little kid
To keep me happy, there's no limit to the things you did
And all my childhood memories
Are full of all the sweet things you did for me
And even though I act crazy
I got to thank the Lord that you made me
There are no words that can express how I feel
You never kept a secret, always stayed real
And I appreciate how you raised me
And all the extra love that you gave me
I wish I could take the pain away
If you can make it through the night, there's a brighter day
Everything will be alright if you hold on
It's a struggle, everyday gotta roll on
And there's no way I can pay you back
But my plan is to show you that I understand.


I take a shot of Henessey now I'm strong enough to face the madness
Nickel bag full of sess weed laced with hash
Phone calls from my niggaz on the, other side
Two childhood friends just died, I couldn't cry
A damn shame, when will we ever change
And what remains from a twelve gauge to the brain
Arguements with my Boo is true
I spend mo' time with my niggaz than I do with you
But everywhere it's the same thang, that's the game
I'll be damned if a thang changed, fuck the fame
I'll be hustling to make a mill-ion, lord knows
Ain't no love for us ghetto children, so we cold
Rag top slowin down, time to stop for gas
Beep my horn for a hoochie with a proper ass, uhh
It ain't easy, that's my motto
Drinkin Tanqueray straight out the bottle
Everybody wanna know if I'm insane
My baby mama gotta mind full of silly games
And all the drama got me stressin like I'm hopeless, I can't cope
Me and the homies smokin roaches, cause we broke
Late night hangin out til the sunrise gettin high
Watchin the cops roll by
It ain't easy... that's right

It ain't easy, being me
Will I see the penitentiary, or will I stay free

I can't sleep niggaz plottin on to kill me while I'm dreamin
Wake up sweaty and screamin, cause I can hear them suckers schemin
Probably paranoid, problem is, them punks be fantasizin
A brother bite the bullet, open fire and I died
I wonder why this the way it is, even now
Lookin out for these killer kids, cause they wild
Bill Clinton can you recognize a nigga representin
Doin twenty to life in San Quentin
Gettin calls from my nigga Mike Tyson, ain't nuttin nice
Yo 'Pac, do something righteous witcha life
And even thou you innocent you still a nigga, so they figure
Rather have you behind bars than triggers
But I'm hold ya down and holla Thug Life, lickin shots
Til I see my niggaz free on the block
But no it ain't easy, hahahah
Til I see my niggaz free, on the block, oh
It ain't easy

Lately been reminiscin
bout Peppermint Schnapps in Junior High hit the block
Keep an eye on the cops while D-Boys slang rocks
It's the project kid without a conscience, I'm havin dreams
of hearin screams at my concerts, me all my childhood peers
through the years tryin to stack a little green
I was only seventeen, when I started servin fiends
And I wish there was another way to stack a dollar
So my apoli', casue these hard times make me wanna holler
Will I live to see tommorrow, am I fallin off?
I hit the weed and then proceed to say fuck all of y'all
Ain't nobody down with me I'm thuggin, I can't go home
Cause muh-fuckers think I'm buggin, so now I'm in
this high powered cell at the county jail
Punk judge got a grudge, can't post no bail, what
do I do in these county blues
Gettin battered and bruised by the you know who
And these fakes get to shakin when they face me
Snakes ain't got enough nuts to replace me
Sittin in this, livin hell, listenin to niggaz yell
Tryin to torture em to tell, I'm gettin mail
But ain't nobody sayin much, the same old nuts
is makin bucks while these sluts is gettin fucked
They violated my probation, and it seems
I'll be goin on a long vacation, meanwhile
It ain't easy
No it ain't easy
