
IT’S on my visiting cards sure enough (and it’s them that’s all o’
pink satin paper) that inny gintleman that plases may behould the
intheristhin words, “Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, 39 Southampton
Row, Russell Square, Parrish o’ Bloomsbury.” And shud ye be wantin’ to
diskiver who is the pink of purliteness quite, and the laider of the hot
tun in the houl city o’ Lonon--why it’s jist mesilf. And fait that same
is no wonder at all at all (so be plased to stop curlin your nose), for
every inch o’ the six wakes that I’ve been a gintleman, and left aff
wid the bogthrothing to take up wid the Barronissy, it’s Pathrick that’s
been living like a houly imperor, and gitting the iddication and the
graces. Och! and wouldn’t it be a blessed thing for your spirrits if ye
cud lay your two peepers jist, upon Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
when he is all riddy drissed for the hopperer, or stipping into the
Brisky for the drive into the Hyde Park. But it’s the illigant big
figgur that I ave, for the rason o’ which all the ladies fall in love
wid me. Isn’t it my own swate silf now that’ll missure the six fut, and
the three inches more nor that, in me stockins, and that am excadingly
will proportioned all over to match? And it is ralelly more than three
fut and a bit that there is, inny how, of the little ould furrener
Frinchman that lives jist over the way, and that’s a oggling and
a goggling the houl day, (and bad luck to him,) at the purty widdy
Misthress Tracle that’s my own nixt-door neighbor, (God bliss her!)
and a most particuller frind and acquaintance? You percave the little
spalpeen is summat down in the mouth, and wears his lift hand in a
sling, and it’s for that same thing, by yur lave, that I’m going to give
you the good rason.

The truth of the houl matter is jist simple enough; for the very first
day that I com’d from Connaught, and showd my swate little silf in the
strait to the widdy, who was looking through the windy, it was a
gone case althegither with the heart o’ the purty Misthress Tracle.
I percaved it, ye see, all at once, and no mistake, and that’s God’s
truth. First of all it was up wid the windy in a jiffy, and thin she
threw open her two peepers to the itmost, and thin it was a little gould
spy-glass that she clapped tight to one o’ them and divil may burn me
if it didn’t spake to me as plain as a peeper cud spake, and says it,
through the spy-glass: “Och! the tip o’ the mornin’ to ye, Sir Pathrick
O’Grandison, Barronitt, mavourneen; and it’s a nate gintleman that ye
are, sure enough, and it’s mesilf and me forten jist that’ll be at yur
sarvice, dear, inny time o’ day at all at all for the asking.” And it’s
not mesilf ye wud have to be bate in the purliteness; so I made her
a bow that wud ha’ broken yur heart altegither to behould, and thin I
pulled aff me hat with a flourish, and thin I winked at her hard wid
both eyes, as much as to say, “True for you, yer a swate little crature,
Mrs. Tracle, me darlint, and I wish I may be drownthed dead in a bog,
if it’s not mesilf, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, that’ll make a
houl bushel o’ love to yur leddyship, in the twinkling o’ the eye of a
Londonderry purraty.”

And it was the nixt mornin’, sure, jist as I was making up me mind
whither it wouldn’t be the purlite thing to sind a bit o’ writin’ to the
widdy by way of a love-litter, when up com’d the delivery servant wid
an illigant card, and he tould me that the name on it (for I niver could
rade the copperplate printin on account of being lift handed) was all
about Mounseer, the Count, A Goose, Look--aisy, Maiter-di-dauns, and
that the houl of the divilish lingo was the spalpeeny long name of the
little ould furrener Frinchman as lived over the way.

And jist wid that in cum’d the little willian himself, and then he made
me a broth of a bow, and thin he said he had ounly taken the liberty
of doing me the honor of the giving me a call, and thin he went on to
palaver at a great rate, and divil the bit did I comprehind what he wud
be afther the tilling me at all at all, excipting and saving that he
said “pully wou, woolly wou,” and tould me, among a bushel o’ lies, bad
luck to him, that he was mad for the love o’ my widdy Misthress Tracle,
and that my widdy Mrs. Tracle had a puncheon for him.

At the hearin’ of this, ye may swear, though, I was as mad as a
grasshopper, but I remimbered that I was Sir Pathrick O’Grandison,
Barronitt, and that it wasn’t althegither gentaal to lit the anger git
the upper hand o’ the purliteness, so I made light o’ the matter and
kipt dark, and got quite sociable wid the little chap, and afther a
while what did he do but ask me to go wid him to the widdy’s, saying he
wud give me the feshionable inthroduction to her leddyship.

“Is it there ye are?” said I thin to mesilf, “and it’s thrue for you,
Pathrick, that ye’re the fortunittest mortal in life. We’ll soon see
now whither it’s your swate silf, or whither it’s little Mounseer
Maiter-di-dauns, that Misthress Tracle is head and ears in the love
wid.”

Wid that we wint aff to the widdy’s, next door, and ye may well say it
was an illigant place; so it was. There was a carpet all over the floor,
and in one corner there was a forty-pinny and a Jew’s harp and the divil
knows what ilse, and in another corner was a sofy, the beautifullest
thing in all natur, and sitting on the sofy, sure enough, there was the
swate little angel, Misthress Tracle.

“The tip o’ the mornin’ to ye,” says I, “Mrs. Tracle,” and thin I made
sich an illigant obaysance that it wud ha quite althegither bewildered
the brain o’ ye.

“Wully woo, pully woo, plump in the mud,” says the little furrenner
Frinchman, “and sure Mrs. Tracle,” says he, that he did, “isn’t this
gintleman here jist his reverence Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt,
and isn’t he althegither and entirely the most particular frind and
acquaintance that I have in the houl world?”

And wid that the widdy, she gits up from the sofy, and makes the swatest
curthchy nor iver was seen; and thin down she sits like an angel;
and thin, by the powers, it was that little spalpeen Mounseer
Maiter-di-dauns that plumped his silf right down by the right side of
her. Och hon! I ixpicted the two eyes o’ me wud ha cum’d out of my head
on the spot, I was so dispirate mad! Howiver, “Bait who!” says I, after
awhile. “Is it there ye are, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns?” and so down I
plumped on the lift side of her leddyship, to be aven with the willain.
Botheration! it wud ha done your heart good to percave the illigant
double wink that I gived her jist thin right in the face with both eyes.

But the little ould Frinchman he niver beginned to suspict me at all
at all, and disperate hard it was he made the love to her leddyship.
“Woully wou,” says he, “Pully wou,” says he, “Plump in the mud,” says he.

“That’s all to no use, Mounseer Frog, mavourneen,” thinks I; and I
talked as hard and as fast as I could all the while, and throth it was
mesilf jist that divarted her leddyship complately and intirely, by
rason of the illigant conversation that I kipt up wid her all about the
dear bogs of Connaught. And by and by she gived me such a swate smile,
from one ind of her mouth to the ither, that it made me as bould as a
pig, and I jist took hould of the ind of her little finger in the most
dillikitest manner in natur, looking at her all the while out o’ the
whites of my eyes.

And then ounly percave the cuteness of the swate angel, for no sooner
did she obsarve that I was afther the squazing of her flipper, than she
up wid it in a jiffy, and put it away behind her back, jist as much as
to say, “Now thin, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, there’s a bitther chance
for ye, mavourneen, for it’s not altogether the gentaal thing to be
afther the squazing of my flipper right full in the sight of that little
furrenner Frinchman, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns.”

Wid that I giv’d her a big wink jist to say, “lit Sir Pathrick alone for
the likes o’ them thricks,” and thin I wint aisy to work, and you’d have
died wid the divarsion to behould how cliverly I slipped my right arm
betwane the back o’ the sofy, and the back of her leddyship, and there,
sure enough, I found a swate little flipper all a waiting to say, “the
tip o’ the mornin’ to ye, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt.” And
wasn’t it mesilf, sure, that jist giv’d it the laste little bit of a
squaze in the world, all in the way of a commincement, and not to be too
rough wid her leddyship? and och, botheration, wasn’t it the gentaalest
and dilikittest of all the little squazes that I got in return? “Blood
and thunder, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen,” thinks I to mesilf, “fait it’s
jist the mother’s son of you, and nobody else at all at all, that’s the
handsomest and the fortunittest young bog-throtter that ever cum’d out
of Connaught!” And with that I givd the flipper a big squaze, and a big
squaze it was, by the powers, that her leddyship giv’d to me back. But
it would ha split the seven sides of you wid the laffin’ to
behould, jist then all at once, the consated behavior of Mounseer
Maiter-di-dauns. The likes o’ sich a jabbering, and a smirking, and a
parley-wouing as he begin’d wid her leddyship, niver was known before
upon arth; and divil may burn me if it wasn’t me own very two peepers
that cotch’d him tipping her the wink out of one eye. Och, hon! if it
wasn’t mesilf thin that was mad as a Kilkenny cat I shud like to be
tould who it was!

“Let me infarm you, Mounseer Maiter-di-dauns,” said I, as purlite as
iver ye seed, “that it’s not the gintaal thing at all at all, and not
for the likes o’ you inny how, to be afther the oggling and a goggling
at her leddyship in that fashion,” and jist wid that such another squaze
as it was I giv’d her flipper, all as much as to say, “isn’t it Sir
Pathrick now, my jewel, that’ll be able to the proticting o’ you, my
darlint?” and then there cum’d another squaze back, all by way of the
answer. “Thrue for you, Sir Pathrick,” it said as plain as iver a squaze
said in the world, “Thrue for you, Sir Pathrick, mavourneen, and it’s
a proper nate gintleman ye are--that’s God’s truth,” and with that she
opened her two beautiful peepers till I belaved they wud ha’ cum’d out
of her hid althegither and intirely, and she looked first as mad as a
cat at Mounseer Frog, and thin as smiling as all out o’ doors at mesilf.

“Thin,” says he, the willian, “Och hon! and a wolly-wou, pully-wou,” and
then wid that he shoved up his two shoulders till the divil the bit of
his hid was to be diskivered, and then he let down the two corners of
his purraty-trap, and thin not a haporth more of the satisfaction could
I git out o’ the spalpeen.

Belave me, my jewel, it was Sir Pathrick that was unreasonable mad thin,
and the more by token that the Frinchman kipt an wid his winking at the
widdy; and the widdy she kept an wid the squazing of my flipper, as much
as to say, “At him again, Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, mavourneen:” so I
just ripped out wid a big oath, and says I;

“Ye little spalpeeny frog of a bog-throtting son of a bloody noun!”--and
jist thin what d’ye think it was that her leddyship did? Troth she
jumped up from the sofy as if she was bit, and made off through
the door, while I turned my head round afther her, in a complate
bewilderment and botheration, and followed her wid me two peepers. You
percave I had a reason of my own for knowing that she couldn’t git down
the stares althegither and intirely; for I knew very well that I had
hould of her hand, for the divil the bit had I iver lit it go. And says
I; “Isn’t it the laste little bit of a mistake in the world that ye’ve
been afther the making, yer leddyship? Come back now, that’s a darlint,
and I’ll give ye yur flipper.” But aff she wint down the stairs like a
shot, and thin I turned round to the little Frinch furrenner. Och hon!
if it wasn’t his spalpeeny little paw that I had hould of in my own--why
thin--thin it wasn’t--that’s all.

And maybe it wasn’t mesilf that jist died then outright wid the laffin’,
to behold the little chap when he found out that it wasn’t the widdy at
all at all that he had had hould of all the time, but only Sir Pathrick
O’Grandison. The ould divil himself niver behild sich a long face as he
pet an! As for Sir Pathrick O’Grandison, Barronitt, it wasn’t for
the likes of his riverence to be afther the minding of a thrifle of a
mistake. Ye may jist say, though (for it’s God’s thruth), that afore I
left hould of the flipper of the spalpeen (which was not till afther her
leddyship’s futman had kicked us both down the stairs), I giv’d it such a
nate little broth of a squaze as made it all up into raspberry jam.

“Woully wou,” says he, “pully wou,” says he--“Cot tam!”

And that’s jist the thruth of the rason why he wears his lift hand in a
sling.
