Appellant Kenyon & Kenyon (“Kenyon”) provided appellee Summit Packaging Systems, Inc. (“Summit”) legal representation in a patent infringement lawsuit.   Dissatisfied with the legal services it received, Summit brought suit against Kenyon in New Hampshire Superior Court.   After removing the case to federal court, Kenyon filed a motion to stay the proceedings in favor of arbitration.   Kenyon argued that the case should be submitted to arbitration pursuant to a written agreement between the parties.   The district court denied Kenyon's motion, finding the arbitration clause to be permissive rather than mandatory.   Because we conclude that the arbitration clause is mandatory, we reverse.
BACKGROUND
In 1994, Summit retained Kenyon, an intellectual property law firm, to represent it in a patent infringement lawsuit.   A letter dated April 28, 1994, signed by both parties, memorialized the terms of the retainer agreement.   The April 28 letter incorporated by reference the terms of a 1991 retainer agreement between Summit and Kenyon.   The 1991 retainer agreement contains an arbitration clause that states:
In the event any dispute arises between us concerning our representation or payment of our fees and disbursements which cannot be promptly resolved to our mutual satisfaction, you agree that the dispute will be submitted to arbitration, and for that purpose referred to the President of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York ․ or to such Trustee or other member of that Association as the President any [sic] designate, as a tribunal for resolution of the dispute (and decision of the tribunal shall be final) or, if you prefer, submitted to the Courts of the State of New York, on condition that you promptly indicate your preference upon request, and promptly appear therebefore.
Displeased with Kenyon's legal representation, Summit filed suit in New Hampshire Superior Court alleging, inter alia, legal malpractice and unfair billing practices.   Kenyon successfully removed the case to federal court and shortly thereafter filed for summary judgment.   Kenyon argued that all disputes regarding its representation of Summit should be submitted to arbitration pursuant to the written agreement between the parties.   On December 28, 2000, the district court denied Kenyon's motion for summary judgment and characterized the arbitration clause as follows:
The clause [Kenyon] relies on permits but does not require Summit to submit disputes concerning Kenyon & Kenyon's representation of it to arbitration.   Further, although Kenyon & Kenyon does not raise the issue, the language in the clause authorizes Summit to file claims in the New York state courts which permits, but does not require Summit to bring suit in New York State Court.
Summit Packaging Sys., Inc. v. Kenyon & Kenyon, No. 00-131, slip. op. at 1 (D.N.H. Dec. 28, 2000).
On January 10, 2001, Kenyon filed a motion to reconsider the trial court's summary judgment order or, in the alternative, for a stay of the proceedings under the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.   The court denied these combined motions.  Summit, No. 00-131, slip. op. at 1 (D.N.H. Jan. 31, 2001).   Kenyon now appeals the district court's denial of its motion to stay the proceedings in favor of arbitration.
DISCUSSION
Pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), federal appellate courts have jurisdiction to review a district court's denial of a motion to stay proceedings in favor of arbitration.  9 U.S.C. § 16(a)(1)(A).   As a condition precedent to exercising its jurisdiction under § 16(a)(1)(A), the appeals court must find that the requirements set forth in 9 U.S.C. § 3 have been met.  Section 3 states, in relevant part:
If any suit or proceeding be brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration, the court in which such suit is pending, upon being satisfied that the issue involved in such suit or proceeding is referable to arbitration under such an agreement, shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement․
9 U.S.C. § 3 (emphasis added).
Summit argues that this Court does not have jurisdiction over Kenyon's appeal because the parties' issues are not “referable to arbitration.”   Summit claims that the retainer agreement is entirely permissive, allowing Summit to resolve its dispute with Kenyon through arbitration or litigation in any forum.   Because the arbitration clause does not constrain Summit's choice of forum whatsoever, the issues cannot properly be “referable to arbitration” according to Summit.
In the alternative, Summit claims that if the retainer agreement constrains its choice of forum-requiring Summit to choose between arbitration and New York state court-arbitration is still not mandatory.   The arbitration clause remains permissive in the sense that Summit continues to have a choice between arbitration and litigation in New York state court.   Summit, then, cannot be forced to arbitrate against its will because the arbitration clause permits, but does not require, arbitration.   Summit thus concludes that under either reading of the retainer agreement, the issues at stake are not “referable to arbitration,” thereby leaving this Court without jurisdictional authority.
 We agree with Summit that a party cannot be forced to arbitrate when it has not agreed to do so.   See, e.g., AT & T Techs., Inc. v. Communications Workers of Am., 475 U.S. 643, 648, 106 S.Ct. 1415, 89 L.Ed.2d 648 (1986).   We further agree that a party cannot be forced to arbitrate against its will if the arbitration clause permits, but does not require, arbitration.   Thus, the crucial underlying question in Summit's jurisdictional challenge is whether the arbitration clause at issue is mandatory or permissive.   Interestingly, this is the same question that is presented by the merits of the appeal.   As the two questions are identical, resolution of Summit's jurisdictional challenge will determine the outcome of Kenyon's appeal.
 Summit's first argument is that the arbitration clause is entirely permissive, allowing Summit to file suit in any forum it desires.   However, this position, which was also adopted by the district court, is belied by the very language of the arbitration clause.   The plain language of the arbitration clause offers Summit only two forums in the event of a dispute:  arbitration or litigation in New York state court.   In the retainer contract, Summit agreed that any dispute “will be submitted to arbitration ․ or ․ to the Courts of the State of New York․”  (Appellant's Brief app. at 14) (emphasis added).   The language of the retainer agreement simply does not allow for an interpretation that permits filing suit outside of New York. The parties' choice of the word “will”-a word “commonly having the mandatory sense of ‘shall’ or ‘must,’ ” Black's Law Dictionary 1102 (6th ed.1991)-demonstrates their exclusive commitment to the two named forums.   Most succinctly, the plain meaning of the phrase “will be submitted” is that the course of action is required, not discretionary.
 To construe the phrase “will be submitted to arbitration ․ or ․ to the Courts of the State of New York” to permit the parties to choose any forum imaginable would be to render the phrase “will be” meaningless.   Since it is a basic principle of contract law that constructions that render contract terms meaningless should be avoided, see, e.g., Systemized of New England, Inc. v. SCM, Inc., 732 F.2d 1030, 1034 (1st Cir.1984) (applying the “familiar principle” that every part of a contract should be given “meaning and effect”), we interpret the arbitration clause to require Summit to choose one of the two named forums.
In interpreting the arbitration clause to allow Summit to file suit in any forum, the district court mistakenly relied on Dancart Corp. v. St. Al