ORDER
Defendants have responded to our order to show cause.   See Frunz v. City of Tacoma, 468 F.3d 1141, 1147 n. 10 (9th Cir.2006).   They argue that their appeal wasn't frivolous because they reasonably relied on relevant case authorities, notably, Murdock v. Stout, 54 F.3d 1437 (9th Cir.1995).   We quote at length from the response:
Like the instant case, the situation in Murdock began with a call from a neighbor who reported suspicious activity.   But the initial neighbor's report in Murdock provided the officers with far less information than the report by Mr. Staples in the instant case.   In Murdock, all the neighbor reported was “that a passerby had told him that he saw a young person run from” Murdock's house.   Officers responded and found the house secure, except for a sliding door at the rear of the house, which was open approximately 8 to 10 inches.  Id. at 1439.   The Murdock court stated that the neighbor's report and open door were not enough to establish probable cause and exigent circumstances, but that those two facts, coupled with indicia that someone should be home and was not answering, were sufficient:
The police officers did not, however enter the house based only on the open door and the neighbor's report.   They observed several indications that a resident was or should have been in the residence. The lights were on and the television was on, in addition to the door being open.   The officers prudently attempted to make contact with the resident, no doubt to make sure the resident was safe in light of the officers' concern that a burglary or some other crime might have occurred.   Officer Jacobson shouted twice, but received no answer, nor did any resident answer the telephone.   These additional pieces of information, indicating that a resident should have been home, but was not responding, combined with the earlier report of suspicious activity and the presence of the open door tip the scales to supply the officer with probable cause to believe that some criminal activity had occurred or was occurring or that a resident in the house might have been in danger or injured.
(emphasis added) Id. at 1442.   Similarly, in this case, the officers did not act solely on the information reported by Mr. Staples.
As outlined above, the neighbor's report in this case provided the officers with far more detailed and credible information than the neighbor's hearsay report of suspicious activity in Murdock.   In this case, the officers were told by Mr. Staples that Doug Quandt, the owner of the house, had spoken to him just a few days earlier and had asked him to watch the house while Quandt was out of town.  ER 139-141.   Quandt also specifically told Mr. Staples that the house was going to be empty while he was gone.  Id. In its opinion, this court states that the officers did not gain any additional information when they responded to the house the second time.   Defendants respectfully submit that this is not an accurate statement of the facts.   As documented in the CAD, when the officers were dispatched the second time, they immediately responded to the Staples' residence.   See ER 32 (reflecting that officers arrived at the Staples residence at 14:56:29).   After speaking with Mr. Staples for a few minutes, the officers then went to 1708 South 40th Street.  Id. (reflecting that, at 14:59:01, the officers changed location from 1712 South 40th Street (the Staples' residence) to 1708 South 40th Street).   When they arrived at 1708 South 40th Street, the officers saw three people inside a house that was supposed to be empty.  ER 334.   Further, these three people were dirty and unkempt and appeared to be “street people.”  Id.
In Murdock, the court found probable cause and exigent circumstances based on a neighbor's hearsay report of suspicious activity, an open door, and indicia that someone should be home but was not responding to the officers' calls.   In this case, the officers had a detailed, eyewitness report from the neighbor that the house was supposed to be empty, repeated reports of people inside the house, indicia suggesting that these people had concealed themselves in the house during the officers' first response, and during the officers' second response, visual confirmation of people inside the house whose appearance was inconsistent with the surroundings.   Based on the similarity of these facts with the circumstances in Murdock, the defendants in good faith believed that Murdock supported the constitutionality of their actions.
Response at 9-12.
The nub of this argument appears to be that, as in Murdock (and contrary to the facts we recited in our opinion), the officers here obtained independent verification of Staples's account before entering:  They observed three individuals, whose appearances were inconsistent with their surroundings, inside the house.   Defendants reiterate this claim a few pages later:  “The officers activated the beeper [notifying the station of an emergency situation], because when they arrived at the Quandt home, they observed three people inside who appeared to be ‘street people.’  ER 334.”   Response at 21-22.
The record belies this argument.  ER 334, on which defendants rely, is part of Sergeant Stril's testimony, and Stril made his observations only after the officers had entered the house:
Q. After you heard the radio traffic that three were detained, what did you do?
A. I went into the residence to see what was going on.
Q. What do you recall seeing?
A. The officers had three people on the kitchen floor handcuffed. I inquired of the circumstances.   And I made some observations of my own.   The people I saw in the house looked like, I will use the term “street people.”   They were roughly dress [sic], unkempt, not clean.   They did not look like your typical householder.
ER 334.   The only evidence as to what the officers did see prior to entering undercuts defendants' assertion that the officers saw “street people” inside:  Officer Alred testified only that he “saw movement in the kitchen ․ and ․ movement at the window as I passed the kitchen.”  ER 406.
Defendants' argument that the police entered the house because they saw “street people” inside was prominently raised in their brief as well.   See Brief of Defendants-Appellants at 6 (“This time, when the officers arrived, they could see people inside the house-two men and a woman.   Dkt. 105/ER 408 (Alred testimony).1  The people in the house looked like ‘street people’-they were dirty, unkempt, and roughly dressed.   Dkt. 104/ER 334.”).   As was their argument that this supposed fact made their case similar to Murdock.
Because defendants' argument was unsupported by the record, we found Murdock inapplicable.   We explained our reasoning, and provided a correct recitation of the facts.   We issued the order to show cause in part to give defendants an opportunity to explain or retract their earlier misstatement.   Defendants did not do so.   Instead, they twice repeated it.
Nor is this the only place where defendants are in error about the facts.   In footnote 2 of the response, defendants claim “it was undisputed that Frunz did not drive to the house on the day of the incident.  ER 104.”   The page of the record defendants cite, ER 104, does not support this proposition.   It contains the testimony of Frunz's divorce lawyer that he drove her to the house on the prior Monday and Wednesday, but he says nothing about driving her on Saturday, the day in question.   In fact, he does say on the very same page that he was not involved in any of the Saturday events.  ER 104.2
Defendants hotly dispute our suggestion that the police could profitably have questioned Staples about his contacts with Frunz's husband:  “The court mistakenly suggests that the officers could have further questioned Staples regarding Staples' last contact with Quandt․ However, Staples testified that his conversation with Quandt occurred just two days prior to the incident.   ER 139.” 