Marlin Turner appeals a Sentencing Guidelines ruling relating to his criminal history score, which took into account a prior juvenile adjudication in Tennessee.   Although he filed a notice of appeal from the adjudication, it was neither pursued by Turner nor by the State.   We affirm.
I
BACKGROUND
While a minor living in Franklin County, Tennessee, in 1998, Turner ran away from a juvenile offender program, and was subsequently arrested and arraigned in Franklin County Juvenile Court for theft and possession of a firearm.   While detained in a juvenile facility in Rhea County, Tennessee, pending trial on these charges, Turner vandalized and attempted to set fire to his detention cell.   Consequently, a second delinquency petition was lodged against him in the Rhea County Juvenile Court.   Meanwhile, Turner had been adjudicated delinquent on the pending theft and firearm charges in Franklin County, where he was committed to a juvenile detention facility for an indefinite term.
On May 28, 1998, Turner appeared in Rhea County Juvenile Court for a bench trial on the pending arson charges.   An attorney who had never handled a criminal delinquency case was appointed to represent him.   The court-appointed counsel consulted with Turner before the bench trial commenced, and Turner executed a written statement acknowledging his various procedural rights at trial, including the right to remain silent, to be represented by counsel, to review a copy of the charges against him, to present evidence in his own behalf, to cross-examine the State's witnesses, and to “appeal” from any adverse judgment, viz., to receive a de novo jury trial in the circuit court.   Tenn.Code Ann. §§ 37-1-121 to 129, 159(a).1  Following the hearing, Turner was found delinquent, beyond a reasonable doubt, then sentenced to an indeterminate commitment to a juvenile detention program, which was to run concurrently with the earlier Franklin County sentence.
Under the State's two-tier trial system, a defendant may opt for a bench trial in the juvenile court, with somewhat curtailed procedural protections, after which he may opt to appeal to the circuit court for a de novo jury trial.   Accordingly, Turner's counsel submitted a timely notice of appeal from the Rhea County judgment.   The district attorney informed Turner's counsel that the State would decide whether to proceed with the Rhea County appeal once the circuit court had ruled upon Turner's pending appeal from the earlier Franklin County adjudication.   When Turner's counsel learned that the circuit court had denied that pending appeal, he concluded that the State would not pursue the Rhea County appeal, inasmuch as the sentences imposed under both judgments were to run concurrently.   For some undisclosed reason, however, the circuit court never scheduled Turner's Rhea County appeal for a de novo trial.
While in juvenile detention, Turner threatened to kill President Clinton and the Clinton family.   Upon reaching age 18, Turner was tried in federal district court and found guilty of that offense.   Subsequently, while in custody for violating his supervised release, Turner assaulted a correctional officer, and was convicted.   The presentence report recommended that the district court include the two Tennessee juvenile adjudications in its calculation of Turner's criminal history category (“CHC”) under the Guidelines.   Whereupon, Turner objected on the ground that the concurrent sentence imposed on his Rhea County conviction was neither final nor reliable, since the circuit court never acted upon his pending notice of appeal.   The district court denied the objection and determined that both juvenile convictions should be considered in calculating Turner's CHC. On appeal, Turner challenges this aspect of the sentencing determination.
II
DISCUSSION
 The district court's ruling on Turner's CHC is subject to de novo review.   See United States v. Gonzalez-Arimont, 268 F.3d 8, 14 (1st Cir.2001).   The Guidelines require that we consider “any sentence previously imposed upon adjudication of guilt, whether by guilty plea, trial, or plea of nolo contendere, for conduct not part of the [ ] offense [of conviction],” U.S.S.G. § 4A1.2(a), which encompasses sentences imposed in juvenile adjudications, see id.  § 4A1.2(d);  Gonzalez-Arimont, 268 F.3d at 14.
 Turner premises this appeal upon our decision in United States v. Florentino, 385 F.3d 60 (1st Cir.2004) (involving Massachusetts' two-tier trial system).   Like Tennessee, at one time Massachusetts had a two-tier trial system, pursuant to which criminal defendants were accorded a first-level bench trial with more limited procedural safeguards, as well as the right to lodge an appeal for a de novo jury trial.   Unlike Tennessee, however, Massachusetts provided that the defendant's submission of a notice of appeal served immediately and automatically to vacate the first-tier conviction for most purposes.  Id. at 63.2  In contrast, Tennessee law expressly provides that the filing of a notice of appeal does not, in any sense, vacate the first-tier conviction.   See Tenn.Code Ann. § 37-1-159(b) (“An appeal does not suspend the order of the juvenile court.”);  Anglin v. Mitchell, 596 S.W.2d 779, 789-90 (Tenn.1980).
In affirming the district court decision to consider Florentino's first-tier conviction under the Guidelines, we noted that notwithstanding the labels employed by the state courts-that the notice of appeal “vacates” the first-tier conviction (viz., as if it had never been entered)-in actuality the appeal merely rendered that conviction conditionally dormant (viz., subject to reinstatement in the event the defendant, for example, withdrew or failed to prosecute his appeal).  Florentino, 385 F.3d at 63 (describing the first-tier conviction as “half asleep”).   Turning to the Guidelines' commentary, the Florentino panel observed that vacated convictions are to be counted unless their vacation resulted from some legal error or newly discovered evidence, whereas all other vacated convictions should be counted unless “expunged,” viz., treated as if a nullity ab initio.  Id. at 64.   The vacating of the Florentino first-tier conviction was neither the result of legal error nor newly discovered evidence (but merely the filing of a notice of appeal), and the conviction was simply dormant, rather than expunged.  Id.
Furthermore, we noted that even if the Guidelines commentary adverted primarily to actual appellate reversals and expungements and did not anticipate the effects of an “appeal” in an idiosyncratic two-tier trial system, see supra note 1, Sentencing Guidelines policy plainly suggested that the Florentino first-tier conviction should be counted in assessing his criminal history.   Given that the two-tier system accords defendants a right of appeal, as a counterweight to the more circumscribed procedural protections prescribed in a first-tier bench trial, “it is hard to see why a defendant who is convicted at the first tier and walks away from a lodged appeal should not be treated as ‘convicted’ for Guidelines purposes.”  Florentino, 385 F.3d at 64-65 (noting that defendant must bear the burden to show “good reason” why his abandonment of the appeal should not be held against him).   As Florentino's failure to appear at his de novo trial was left wholly unexplained, the first-tier conviction was properly counted under the Guidelines.  Id. at 65.
Turner maintains that the Tennessee first-tier proceeding is somehow less procedurally sufficient than the corresponding proceeding in Massachusetts, hence his first-tier conviction constituted an inherently less reliable indicium of guilt.   The sole support offered for this contention is the state statute which prescribes that the first-tier proceeding is to be “conducted by the court without a jury, in an informal but orderly manner.”   Tenn.Code. Ann. § 37-1-124(a) (emphasis added).   However, the fact that the proceeding is “informal” discloses little about the adequacy ve