
... me and her sister had somethin goin on
(Aiyyo, would you listen to me motherfucker?)
I reach my peak, I can't speak
Call my nigga Cheek, tell him that my will is weak
(Aiyyo c'mon nigga, cut that)
I'm sick of niggaz lyin, I'm sick of bitches hawkin
(Aiyyo, yoyo Big, aiyyo chill)
Matter of fact, I'm sick of talkin

Damn... we was spose to rule the world baby
We was unstoppable!
The shit can't be over, no
The shit can't be over man
I know you hear me nigga
I know you hear me
You got too much livin to do
Too much unfinished business
It ain't over
Live your life

I'm sittin in the crib dreamin about Leer jets and coupes
The way Salt shoops and how they sell records like Snoop
Oops!
I'm interrupted by a doorbell
3:52, who the hell
Is this?
I gets up quick
Cocks my shit
Stop the dogs from barkin
Then proceed to walkin
Its a face that I seen before
My nigga Sing, we used to sling on the sixteenth floor
Check it
I look deeper
I see blood up on his sneakers
And his fist gripped a chrome four-fifth
So I dip
Nigga, is you creepin or speakin?
He tells me C-Rock just got hit up at the beacon
I opens up the door, pitiful
Is he in critical?
Retaliation for this one won't be minimal
Cuz I'm a criminal
Way before the rap shit
Bust a gat shit
Puff won't even know what happened
If it's done smoothly
Silencers on the Uzi
Stashed in the hooptie
My alibi, any cutie
With a booty that done fucked big Pop
Head spinnin, reminiscin bout my man C-Rock

Somebody's gotta die
If I go, you got to go
Somebody's gotta die
Let the gunshots blow
Somebody's gotta die
Nobody got to know
That I killed yo ass in the mix, bitch

Fillin clips he explained our situation
Precisely, so we know exactly what we facin
Some kid named Jason In a Honda station wagon
Was braggin
About how much loot and crack he stackin
Rock had a grip so they formed up a clique
Small crew
Round the time I was locked up with you
True indeed
But yo nigga let me proceed
Don't fill them clips too high
Give them bullets room to breathe
Damn where was I?
Yeah
One night in town
Blew the fuck up
D-Rock went home
And Jay got stuck the fuck up
Hit em twice
Got em right on the Persian white
Pistol whipped his kids
And taped up his wife
He said "Yo Rock, set em up", no question
Wet em up no less
Than 50 shots in his direction
How many shots?
Man nigga, I seen mad holes
What kinda gats?
Hitch links, Cops, and Calicoles
But fuck that
I know where all them niggaz rest at
In the buildin hustlin
And they don't be strapped
Supreme in black
Is downstairs, the engine runnin
Find a bag to put the guns in
And c'mon if yo comin

Exchanged hugs and pounds before the throw down
How its gonna go down
Lay these niggas low-down
Slow down
Fuck all that plannin shit
Run up in they cribs
And make them cats abandon ship
See niggas like you do ten year bids
Miss the niggas they want
And murder innocent kids
Not I
One niggas in my eye
That's Jason
Ain't no slugs gonna be wasted
Revenge I'm tastin at the tip of my lips
I can't wait to feel my clip in his hips
Pass the chocolate
Thai
Sing ain't lie
There's Jason with his back to me
Talkin to his faculty
I start to get a funny feelins
Put the mask on in case his niggas start squealin
Scream his name out
Squeeze six nothing shorter
Nigga turned around holdin his daughter

Uh, uh, uh, c'mon

Hah, sicka than your average Poppa
Twist cabbage off instinct niggaz don't think shit stink
Pink gators, my Detroit players
Timbs for my hooligans in Brooklyn

Dead right, if they head right, Biggie there every night
Poppa been smooth since days of Underoos
Never lose, never choose to bruise crews who
Do something to us, talk go through us

Girls walk to us, wanna do us, screw us
Who us? Yeah, Poppa and Puff (hehehe)
Close like Starsky and Hutch, stick the clutch
Dare I squeeze three at your cherry M3

Bang every MC easily, busily (take that)
Recently niggaz frontin' ain't sayin' nuttin' (nope)
So I just speak my piece, (c'mon) keep my peace
Cubans with the Jesus piece (thank you God), with my peeps

Packin', askin' who want it
You got it, nigga flaunt it
That Brooklyn bullshit, we on it

I put hoes in NY onto DKNY (uh-huh)
Miami, D.C. prefer Versace (that's right)
All Philly hoes, dough and Moschino (c'mon)
Every cutie wit a booty bought a Coogi (hah)

Now who's the real dookie, meanin' who's really the shit
Them niggaz ride dicks, Frank White push the sticks
On the Lexus, LX, four and a half
Bulletproof glass tints if I want some ass

Gon' blast squeeze first ask questions last
That's how most of these so-called gangsters pass
At last, a nigga rappin' 'bout blunts and broads
Tits and bras, ménage à trois, sex in expensive cars

I still leave you on the pavement
Condo paid for, no car payment
At my arraignment, note for the plantiff
Your daughter's tied up in a Brooklyn basement (shhh)

Face it, not guilty, that's how I stay filthy (not guilty)
Richer than Richie, till you niggaz come and get me

I can fill ya wit real millionaire shit (I can feel ya)
Escargot, my car go, one sixty, swiftly
Wreck it buy a new one
Your crew run run run, your crew run run

I know you sick of this, name brand nigga with
Flows, girls say he's sweet like licorice
So get with this nigga, it's easy
Girlfriend here's a pen, call me round ten

Come through, have sex on rugs that's Persian (that's right)
Come up to your job, hit you while you workin
For certain, Poppa freakin', not speakin'
Leave that ass leakin', like rapper demo

Tell them hoe, take they clothes off slowly
Hit 'em wit the force like Obi, dick black like Toby (Obi, Toby)
Watch me roam like Gobe, lucky they don't owe me
Where the safe show me, homey (say what, homie?)

Biggie Biggie Biggie, can't you see
Sometimes your words just hypnotize me
And I just love your flashy ways
I guess that's why they broke and you're so paid

Welcome back. *audience applauds*
We're here on Bad Boy television, and I'm Trevin Jones
and I've been conversing with the Mad Rapper.
And quite frankly -- he's very mad.
We're gonna TRY to find out why; so we'll take some questions
at this point from our studio audience.
Yes ma'am, please stand and state your name, and where you're from.

Hi, my name is Shay, and I'm from New Rochelle
and, I just don't understand, why you so mad. (yo, yo)
Like what are you so mad about? (yo, yo, y-y-yo)

You wanna know why, yo first of all, yo first of all you can't
be askin me no question knowhatI'msayin who the fuck is you?
(Ahh, excuse me, Mr. Rapper, Mr. Rapper.) YouknowhatI'msayin?
You can't be askin me no question (It's a family oriented show.)
I'ma tell you why I'm mad, youknowhatI'msayin? I'ma tell you why
I'm mad. I'ma tell you why I'm mad. These niggaz is makin five
hundred thousand dollar videos, yunusayin? They drivin around in
hot cars, yunusayin? They got bitches, they got all that shit.
(Sir, please, please, refrain from your foul language.)
YouknowhatI'msayin? I'm still livin with my MOMS, youknowhatI'msayin?
That's my word. Yunusayin? I'm makin records I ain't made no money
yet I done made this is my fourth album yo, this my FOURTH ALBUM.
I ain't made a dime yet. This nigga made one album, he makin wild
records. That Ready to Die shit, it was aight, it was aight,
yunumsayin, that shit was aight, it was cool. But my shit is
more John Blaze than that! I got John Blaze shit. And they not
recognizing, they not sayin I recognize. And fuck is that, who
is you to be askin me questions, youknowhatI'msayin? Who is you?
(Spoken intro ends)

(cut and scratched "I gots to talk. I gotta tell what I feel.
I gotta talk about my life as I see it!")

This goes out to you
This goes out to you, and you, and you, and you

Your reign on the top was short like leprechauns
As I crush so-called willies, thugs, and rapper-dons
Get in that ass, quick fast, like ramadan
Its that rap phenomenon Don-Dadda, fuck Poppa
You got ta, call me, Francis M.H. White
in tank-light totes, tote iron
Was told in shootouts, stay low, and keep firin
Keep extra clips for extra shit
Who's next to flip, on that cat with that grip on rap
The mo shady, "Tell em!", Frankie baby
Ain't no tellin where I may be
May see me in D.C. at Howard Homecomin
with my man Capone, dumbin, fuckin somethin
You should know my steelo
Went from ten G's for blow to thirty G's a show
to orgies with hoes I never seen befo'
so, Jesus, get off the Notorious
penis, before I squeeze and bust
If the beef between us, we can settle it
With the chrome and metal shit
I make it hot, like a kettle get
You're delicate, you better get, who sent ya?
You still pedal shit, I got more rides than Great Adventure
Biggie, "How are you gonna do it?"

Kick in the door, wavin the four-four
All you heard was Poppa don't hit me no more

On ya mark, get set, when I spark, ya wet
Look how dark it get, when ya marked with death
Should I start your breath should I let you die
In fear you start to cry, ask why
Lyrically, I'm worser, don't front the word sick
You cursed it, but rehearsed it
I drop unexpectedly like bird shit
You herbs get, stuck quickly for royalties and show money
Don't forget the publishin, I punish em, I'm done with them
Son, I'm surprised you run with them
I think they got cum in them, cause they, nothin but dicks
Tryin to blow up like nitro and dynamite sticks
Mad I smoke hydro rock diamonds, that's sick
Got pay off my flow, rhyme with my own click
Take trips to Cairo, layin with yo bitch
I know you prayin you was rich, fuckin prick
When I see ya I'ma

This goes out for those that choose to use
Disrespectful views on the King of NY
Fuck that, why try, throw bleach in your eye
Now ya Braille in it, stash that light shit, or scalin it
Conscience of ya nonsense in eighty-eight
Sold more powder than Johnson and Johnson
Tote steel like Bronson, vigilante
You wanna get on son, you need to ask me
Ain't no other king in this rap thing
They siblings, nothing but my chil'ren
One shot, they disappearin
Its ill when, MC's used to be on cruddy shit
Took home, Ready to Die, listened, studied shit
Now they on some money shit, successful out the blue
They light weight, fragilly, my nine milly
make the white shake, thats why my money never funny
And you still recoupin, stupid

Some say the x make the sex spec-
Tacular, make me lick ya from ya neck
To ya back, then ya shiverin,' tongue deliverin'
Chills up that spine, that ass is mine
Skip the wine and the candlelight, no Cristal tonight
If it's alright with you, we fuckin' (That's cool)
Deja vu, the blunts sparked, finger fuckin' in the park
Pissy off Bacardi Dark
Remember when I used to play between your legs
You begged for me to stop because you know where it would head
Straight to your mother's bed
Not the Marriott, we be lucky if we find a spot
Next to your sister, damn I really missed the
Way she used to rub my back when I hit that
Way she used to giggle when your ass would wiggle
Now I know you used to sweets at the Parker Meridian
Trips to the Caribbean, but tonight, no ends

You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Here's another one
And another one
And another one
What? What? Uhh

You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Here's another one
And another one
What? Uhh, uhh

Damn, you look fine
Like a windface Rolex, you just shine
I like that waistline
Let me hit that from behind, which wall you wanna climb?
My style's genuine, girl, I love you long time
I got you pinned up, wit' your fuckin' limbs up
All because you like the way my Benz was rimmed up
Bitch, keep your shins up, please watch me do thee
Nasty, like it when you make it move fast, mami
I like it when you tro' it 'pon me
No love makin,' strictly back breakin'
Cees know all his hoes go to my door
Then they go to his flo' to fuck some more
So no caviar, sharp bar, uh uh
Strictly sex that's pretty and left over spaghetti
I know you used to slow CDs and Don Ps
But tonight it's 8-tracks and six packs while I hit that

You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Can you feel me?
'Cause I can feel you
Can you feel me?
You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Can you feel me?
'Cause I can feel you
Can you feel me?

Lets stop the bullshit, baby
Let me take you to the spot, get you hot
So you wanna be with me?
Puff Daddy, B.I.G.
Bring that ass to me

You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Fuckin' you tonight, strokin' you tonight
Can you feel me?
'Cause I can feel you
Can you feel me?
You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Fuckin' you, baby
I'm fuckin' you, baby
You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
I'm doin' it, baby
I'm doin' it, baby
I'm doin' it, baby, yeah, whoa
You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight

Givin' it to you, anyway
You must be used to me spendin'
And all that sweet winin' and dinin'
Well, I'm fuckin' you tonight

Can I live til my last day
Hittin honies that be na-sty
Gettin money in the fast way
And I only care halfway
But I still can't let you pass me

Yo what's beef to you, three niggaz with hoodies and bats
That ain't shit compared to one small cat with gats
When we came here we cut off all kind circulation
Breathin, eatin, the whole situation
When we do our shit we do our shit for real
While you take your money for your deal and make your own beats
Compose your own sheets, that's aight but chill
I'ma spend that mil and cop only hot shit
Rock top shit you know how The Lox get
Then you can see me flyin in the Bentley cockpit
Lox and B-I, hold our grica down for years
Gang not, but we been had our black tears
Niggaz under the stairs only understand what we got
Underground, all above must get shot
You couldn't book me Dano, see Luciano put the burners
to all y'all, what nigga bring it I'm callin y'all

You already know what it's about when I run up in your house
Put the gun up in your mouth and get the money out the couch
Hearin you out is senseless, perhaps for instance
I give this faggot a french kiss
Black gloves, no prints, dark tints
Word on the street they ain't heard from him since
You know about life after kicked the kid in
Since me and my mi-dan can flip seven gri-dams
Scri-dam the flow is forbidd-en
Either you ridin or you dyin cause we swingin iron
Lox and Poppa, turning niggaz into Jim Hoffa
Who gon stop us, it's your last joint double copper
You gettin money or your runnin from the Feds
Ain't nothin over here but sixteen and one in the head
And I solemnly swear
That all y'all niggaz out there got a problem this year

Before you think of keepin me down, heatin me down
The flow like water get deepe and you drown
with no soul, many niggaz roll with no dough
Even the small Dunn got a little black hole
Your destiny is somethin you can never figure out
Niggaz is never happy til there's blood up in your mouth
There's a lot of killers, but who the hell are you to play in this?
A lot are dead, how the hell you take the pain?
Live with it got money you better get with it
My man had the thug in him did his bid with it
Get married to the game but never have a kid with it
Advice from the wise, slice the pies
Too many schemes divides, when dreams collide
Teams provide, war for the street to absorb
Stashed in the ceiling and you slept on the floor
Only a blind dove'll fall in love with a whore

Uhh, uhh, uhh
Who the fuck wanna squeeze?
My Desert Ease make MC's freeze
You wakin up in cold sweats, they just dreams
You still apoligizin, analyzin, my size and your size and
realizin, a fist fight would be asinine
You just pop wines I must pop nines
Genuine steel piece, nozzle in your grill piece
You're shook up, two bricks, every cook up
We can hook up, all I see is the future
Disrespect, I shoot ya
By the way, them bricks, get flipped weekly
Sold by soldiers that mix weed with the leak leak
Die for a dollar nigga, life ain't sweet
Play for keeps wet shirts with experts on the creep
I be the mob fiance, about to marry it
Illegal transactions in Farragut with Arabics
Why not, they fit twelve up in the bedroom
Imagine what they stash is like, make you a classic like
my first LP, beef with me is unhealthy
Fuck around and get an ul-cer, loose your pulse or
collapsed lung, look how many gats I brung
For them homos, still doin promos
Break both your legs you're movin slow-mo, got shined to glow mo'
Nine hundred and ninety six grams, you need for mo'

we push the hottest v's, peel fast
through the city, play monopoly with real cash
me and biggie and the models be, trickin ace, did they ass in
and prada be, somethin you cats got to see
and the watches be all types and shapes of stones
bein broke is childish and i'm quite grown
run up in the club with the ice on, me and my python
scope the spot out, see somethin nice and i'm gone
you cats is home, screamin the fights on
i'm in the fifteen hundred seats, watchin ty-son
same night, same fight
but one of us cats ain't playin right, i let you tell it
people place yourselves in the shoes of two felons
and tell me you won't ball every chance you get
at any chance you hit, we live for the moment
makes sense don't it? now make dollars
cats pop bottles bone chicks that favor I-dollars
and rack up frequent flight mileage

gotta let it show, i love the dough, hey
i love the dough, more than you know
gotta let it show, i love the dough, hey

verse two: notorious b.i.g.
i'm poppin magnums while jigga bag somethin
watch is platinum, got jet lag from
flights back and forth, pop corks of the best grapes
make the best c.d.'s and the best tapes
don't forget the vinyl, take girls break spinals
biggie be richie like lionel, shit
you seen the jesus, dipped to h classes
ice project off lights, chick flashes
blind your broke asses, even got rocks in big mustaches
rock top fashions
ain't shit changed, except the number after the dot
on the range, way niggaz look at me now, kinda strange
i hate y'all too
rather be in carribean sounds with rachael
it's unreal, out the blue frank white got sex appeal
bitches used to go, "ewww!"
still tote steel, tryin to see five mil
off the sin-gle, for real
you ain't fazin the amazin
while your guns raisin, mine is blazin
see you on see me all talkin to sweetness
take it for weakness and leave quick
blocka, roc-a-fella, bad boy collabo
two mc's with mad dough, junior uhh (junior mafia)

i love the dough, more than you know'
gotta let it show, i love the dough, hey

verse three: jay z and notorious b.i.g.
miracu-lous, pockets stay full
niggas skip the bull cause we matadors
snatch the p-89's that we pack in the drawers
and we, clap doors in your acuras
snap like, cameras on amatures
make you all dance, hold the hammer to your's
jig and big rock ice, no cracks or flaws
everybody got a part to play, back to yours
run up in your crib now, crack your doors
watch the real players live, it's a habit to floss
play the charts like the beatles, y'all adapt you lost
and toast cristal on behalf y'all
too bad for y'all, ain't too many as bad as yours
truly, do we, we laugh at y'all
little bastards y'all

uhh, uhh
we hit makers with acres
roll shakers in vegas, you can't break us
lost chips on lakers, gased off shaq
country house, tennis courts and horseback
ridin decidin crack crab or lobster?
who say mobsters don't prosper
niggaz is actors, niggaz deserve oscars
me i'm, critically acclaimed, slug past your brain
reminesce on dames who, coochie used to stink
when we rocked house pieces and puffy gucci links
now we buy homes in unfamiliar places
tito smile everytime he see our faces
cases catch more than outfield-ers
half these rappin cats, ain't seen war
couldn't score if they had point game, they lame
speak my name, i make em dash like dame

The Commission
Uncle Paulie, Big Ditti
Caesar Leo DeGenero (yeahhh)
Charlie Baltimore, Iceberg Slim
The most shadiest, Frank Baby
We here (do you know what beef is?)
We ain't goin nowhere (do you know what beef is?)
Uh-uh (ask yourself, do you know what beef is?)
Uh-uh, uhh

Ha ha ha ha ha, check out this bizarre
rapper style used by me, the B.I.G.
I put my key you put your key in, money we'll be seein
Will reach the fuckin ceiling, check, check it
My Calico been cocked (uh-huh) this rap Alfred Hitchcock
drop top notch playa hating won't stop (uhh)
This instant, rappers too persistant
Quick to spit Biggie name on shit, make my name taste
like ass when you speak it, see me in the street
your jewelry you can keep it, that be our little secret
See me, B that is, I that is, G whiz
Motherfuckers still in my biz
Don't they know my nigga Gutter fuckin kidnip kids? (uhh)
Fuck em in the ass, throw em over the bridge (oooh)
That's how it is, my shit is laid out (what)
Fuck that beef shit, that shit is played out (played out)
Y'all got the gall, all I make is one phone call
All y'all dissapear by tomorrow
All your guns is borrowed, I don't feel sorrow
Actually, your man passed the gat to me, now check this

What's beef? Beef is when you need two gats to go to sleep
Beef is when your moms ain't safe up in the streets
Beef is when I see you
Guaranteed to be in ICU, one more time
What's beef? Beef is when you make your enemies start your Jeep
Beef is when you roll no less than thirty deep
Beef is when I see you
Guaranteed to be in ICU, check it

I done smoked with the best of em (uh-huh) shot at the rest of em (uh-huh)
Was about a hundred or more, maybe less of em
Got my rocks off, that nigga from the Brook just be
whylin on you just be, stylin on you (you so crazy)
When I, tried to warn you but your eyes fucked up
Now I cleared them shits with hits you on the fuckin bench (mmm)
Pardon my French but ahh, sometimes I get kinda
peeved at these, weak MC's (don't stop) with the
supreme baller like, lyrics I call em like I see em G
Y'all niggaz sound like me (yeah)
Y'all was grimy in the early nineties, far behind me
It ain't hard to find me number one with the booyaka
Gimme the Remi and the chronic ain't no tellin what I do to ya (I do to ya)
It's obvious the game's new to ya
Take them ends you make (ehehe)
and spend em on a tutor hah, one shot, I'm through with ya

What's beef? Beef is when you need two gats to go to sleep (don't sleep)
Beef is when your moms ain't safe up in the streets (ain't safe)
Beef is when I see you
Guaranteed to be in ICU (I see you) one more time
What's beef? (What's beef) Beef is when you make your enemies start your Jeep
(Start my Jeep) Beef is when you roll no less than thirty deep (thirty deep)
Beef is when I see you
Guaranteed to be in ICU, check it (I see you)

There'll be nothin but smooth sailin
When I spit shots, now your crew's bailin
All I got is heat and tough talk for you (uh-huh)
Tie you up, cut your balls off just for you (oooh)
Man listen straight torture, look what that slick shit bought ya
A first class ticket to Lucifer, real name Cristopher
Watch me set it off like Vivica
Here lies your demise, close your eyes (uh-huh)
Think good thoughts, die while your skin start to glisten
Pale blue hands get cold, your soul's risen
It's bad cause I just begun, what make the shit real bad
I was havin fun (ahaha!)

What's beef? (What's beef?) Beef is when you need two gats to go to sleep
(Don't sleep) Beef is when your moms ain't safe up in the streets (ain't safe)
Beef is when I see you
Guaranteed to be in ICU, one more time (I see you)
What's beef? (What's beef?) Beef is when you make your enemies start your Jeep
(Start my Jeep) Beef is when you roll no less than thirty deep (thirty deep)
Beef is when I see you (I see you)
Guaranteed to be in ICU, and I'm through
(Yeah, and I'm through)
Uhhh, uhhh
It's like that
(Now ask yourself, do you really, know what beef is?)
Like that
(Then ask yourself)
Uhh
(Do you really, want beef?)
Like that, like that *echoes*
(Ahahaha! Yeah, I like that)
(Big Nash, hit me baby, on and on and on and on)
(Bad Boy)
(Y'all know what it is)
(Shit, I don't want no beef, ahaaa!)


Now, who's hot, who not
Tell me who rock, who sell out in the stores
You tell me who flopped, who copped the blue drop
Who jewels got robbed, who's mostly Dolce down

To the tube socks, the same ol pimp
Ma$e, you know ain't nuttin changed but my limp
Can't stop till I see my name on a blimp
Guarantee a million sales pullin' all the love

You don't believe in Harlem World nigga double up
We don't play around, it's a bet lay it down
Niggaz didn't know me '91, bet they know me now
I'm the young Harlem nigga with the golden sound

Can't no PhD niggaz hold me down, Cooter
Schooled me to the game, now I know my duty
Stay humble, stay low, blow like Hootie
True pimp niggaz spend no dough on the booty
And then ya yell there go Ma$e, there go your cutie

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see

Yeah yeah, ahaha, it's the D to-the A to the D-D-Y
I know you'd rather see me die than to see me fly
I call all the shots, rip all the spots
Rock all the rocks, cop all the drops

I know you thinkin' now
When all the ballin' stops, nigga never home
Gotta call me on the yacht
Ten years from now we'll still be on top
Yo, I thought I told you that we won't stop

Now whatcha gonna do wit a crew
That got money much longer than yours
And a team much stronger than yours
Violate me this'll be your day, we don't play and
Mess around, be D.O.A., be on your way

'Cause it ain't enough time here, ain't enough lime here
For you to shine here, deal with many women
But treat dimes fair
And I'm bigger than the city lights down in Times Square
Yeah, yeah, yeah

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see

Uh, uh
B-I-G P-O-P-P-A
No info for the D.E.A.
Federal agents mad 'cause I'm flagrant
Tap my cell and the phone in the basement

My team supreme, stay clean
Triple beam lyrical dream, I be that
Cat you see at all events bent
Gats in holsters, girls on shoulders

Playboy, I told ya, bring ya might to me
Bruise too much, I lose too much
Step on stage, the girls boo too much
I guess it's 'cause you run with lame dudes too much

Me lose my touch, never that
If I did, ain't no problem to get the gat
Where the true players at?
Throw your rolees in the sky
Wave 'em side to side and keep your hands high

While I give your girl the eye, player please
Lyrically, nigga see
B.I.G. be flossin' jig on the cover of Fortune
Five double oh, here's my phone number

Your man ain't got to know, I got the dough
Got the flow down pizzat
Platinum plus like thizzat
Dangerous on trizzacks
Leave yo' ass flizzat

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see

What's goin on?
What's goin on?
Somebody tell me
What's goin on?
What's goin on?

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see

I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
I don't know what they want from me
It's like the mo money we come across
The mo problems we see
