
When me and my friend drove down to meet some friends at a local college, we were not expecting to do any tripping. We had done plenty of weed and X, but neither of us had ever had the connection or the interest to get acid. When we discovered our friends had some acid left over from the night before, (it was a pretty big priority for us to have the LSD tested by a reliable source) we pitched in some money and purchased 8 hits, which were dropped on gummi peaches. We weren't spending the night, and drove home to make the midnight curfew my mom had imposed on us.

When we were about 30 minutes from home, we decided to go ahead and each take 2 of our 4 hits, even though we knew we would have to be talking to my mom. Then we hit traffic on the interstate, even though it was 11:00 PM, and I started to get a little uneasy. About 10 minutes from home, and 40 minutes after we first dropped the hits, we both started to giggle. Driving became extremely fun for my friend, who informed me that he would not be able to stop laughing when my mom answered the door.

1 hour after dropping:
We stifled laughter as we pushed past my mom into the basement, where we would be spending the night. I quickly ran downstairs and turned on the TV, anxious for my mom to go to bed. I soon realized my friend wasn't behind me. Tracing my steps backwards, I found him sitting in the stairway staring at a mural of some birds.
'Are you seeing this?' he asked me.
Looking at the mural to see what he was talking about, I saw the trees begin to sway and the birds take flight. Knowing we were going to be in for a long night, I pulled him down to the couch where we waited for my mom to go to bed.

2 hours after dropping:
The state of mind I found myself in was extremely interesting. My friend was repeatedly trying to get me to call another friend to act as 'ground control,' for he explained to me that he would periodically lose all concept of who he was or the situation he was in. I was comfortable with my surroundings, and as I described it to him 'in my element.' I found myself in the bathroom staring in the mirror, my friend was standing beside me but had changed into a completely different person. Staring at his face for a period of about a minute would find him changing into 4 different people, an elf, and a dog. (I find myself still, several months later, able to change his face with some concentration when I am really high)

The one thing that I cannot stress enough about LSD induced hallucinations is how real they seem. I have seen things with weed before, but never with the detail and clarity which I experienced on acid. The people I saw my friend change into I had never seen before, but each one of them held very distinct features and detail in the face, and when he spoke the words would be spoken by whatever person I was currently seeing. It was truly amazing to me. I then turned to the mirror, and immediately saw my face melt and distort itself into hideous images. Reading through several trip accounts before attempting LSD, I found it fascinating the relative ease and comfort which people viewed these terrifying images they described. Experiencing this first hand, I felt a strange sense of safety while seeing this, knowing that I was on acid and this was all part of the experience. Having said this, I can easily see how bad trips develop and cannot stress the importance of knowing what you are getting into and being in a comfortable environment. (ie. your basement)

As I continued to look into the mirror I became unable to distinguish which side of the mirror I was on, and felt as though I was inside looking out. As I placed my head against the mirror and stared into my own eyes, I would shift in and out of the correct side of the mirror, momentarily losing grip on reality.

3.5 hours after dropping:
The decision to go outside was made out of sheer wonder and curiosity. Seeming to have the opposite effect of weed, the acid seemed to OVER calm our fears so that we were not neccesarily as careful as we probably should have been. Nevertheless, after a very interesting walk we ended up in the middle of my cul-de-sac. Light was everywhere. The whole cul-de-sac was illuminated in red, blue, and white light. We continually thought we saw headlights, but instead of running or hiding we stared awestruck. As my friend described how the cement had transformed itself into a Roman tiling, I witnessed a very different scene. The cul-de-sac had appeared to be the scene of an earthquake, the ground had wide cracks and the car parked in front of my house seemed to be sinking into the ground. Reality was not a concern of mine, and we did not contemplate at the time how strange we must of looked standing in the middle of the cul-de-sac staring at things. We remained outside for a couple of hours, as thoughts and emotions raced through our head only to be gone and forgotten a couple of seconds later.

After we had our fill, we began to walk back to the basement. The walk back was probably the only part of the trip that bordered on frightening, because with each step the door seemed to get farther away and once we arrived the entrance to the basement seemed very ominous.

6.5 hours after dropping:
We sat down and watched a little TV, and had a great time laughing at the visions we shared of people protruding from the television set. About 7.5 or 8 hours since we began, we could feel reality coming back to us. I first began to sense it in that I began to smell and taste the real world. It is difficult to describe, but just the taste of my mouth and the normal smells of my house were things that had become lost during the trip, and were now beginning to ground me. I went upstairs fearing the sleeplessness (I had to work the next morning), but found myself able to sleep within 30 minutes) The next day at work found me 'not quite there,' but everything did seem a little brighter.

LSD did not provide the euphoria that MDMA does, so if you are looking to FEEL amazing it may not be for you. However, it does make for a great 8 hour adventure. 
