
This is my recollection of my first acid trip. It was done with my girlfriend who had never done it either. My experience with drugs consists of chemicals such as MDMA, MDA, MDE, Methamphetamine ' by accident, thinking the were Ecstasy pills, Ketamine, Dipenhydramine (Dramamine), Adderall, Vicadin and plants such as marijuana and mushrooms.

Setting: My friend's apartment with no one home except my girlfriend and I, very trippy one floor apartment weird pictures on the walls and interesting color schemes. Outside the weather is awful, raining/snowing/sleeting and cold. The night before, well about 1 that morning we took about 250 mg of Ketamine each at a rave and sniffed Rush, so that might have been a factor in the upcoming trip. At around 12:30 pm we dropped 3 tabs each and waited.

T+1 hour: Starting to feel odd, just straight out weird, a bit anxious, I can feel it in my stomach its really annoying, we're giggling about everything mocking the cats in the house, I don't even know why, it was just funny. We start seeing some visuals, things turning and spiraling and patterns emerging and such, nothing brilliant but hey it was entertaining, the nausea is subsiding a bit. All of a sudden my friend (whose house I was at) comes into the house crying, and I think 'oh shit, tell me this isn't just a perfectly clich' event to lead us onto a bad trip.'

So I go into the other room and that's when the fear starts coming, because we just started coming up fairly strong when my friend came in and I'm like damnet, so I started thinking of like all these terrible things associated with evil and death and it was just scary, and I was on the VERGE of freaking out when my girlfriend came in and comforted me, saying how she was okay and my friend had made her hot chocolate. So I calmed down a bit, my friend left and it was us 2 again in the house.

T+2 hours: I'm starting to get reallly paranoid of my friends mom coming home, even though I knew for a fact she would not be home till about 6:30 and it was about 2 or 2:30. I kept trying to comprehend what was happening as nothing was real anymore, patterns emerged from every crevice of the room, the music was incredible but I just felt SO weird I couldn't take it. I was in a continual thought loop trying to figure out what was going on. I kept getting real scared and I just wanted it to end. My girlfriend calmed me down a bit, it took a while but she did. Making out is real weird, I got bizarre mental visions. I kept envisioning weird colors in my mind.

T+2.5 hours: Now the ceiling is raining rainbows, though the ceiling is actually white, and occasionally I see bursts of butterflies or it would start raining roses down on us. I was getting antsy again as I didn't know what to do with myself, we were literally stuck in the house because we couldn't go outside. The reason we couldn't go outside is when we looked out the window the trees turned alive and multiplied their branches and were just terrifying.

Staring at the water on the ground from the second story window, the water turned into multitudes of letters and formed words. I was looking at black crows go by and right after they went by, a good 100+ more crows flew by in different areas of the sky (obviously hallucinations). So overall outside was too scary, but we didn't know what to do. I couldn't escape my mind which was on sensory overload. If there was no music I would hear sounds possibly miles away as if they were right next to me, and what was worse was they echoed - LOUD. And then there were more and more and more noises to the point where I couldn't be in the room.

T+3 hours: The acid was getting to me. I kept thinking that this wouldn't end and I'd be in a world that wasn't real forever, nothing was real anymore, the fan was alive, the walls were alive, the blankets were alive, the floor was alive. Patterns melted into each other, and then formed new ones, from those patterns came new ones. The tracers were unbelievable, I'd be able to swing my hands around and I could move the color/pattern scheme of one object right onto another object. If the wall was striped I could bring the stripes onto the floor.

As I walked into each room I began turning every light on in the apartment to make everything glow its own individual color. And it did, as I walked into the kitchen everything was green, we decided we were hungry but couldn't eat anything so I took out clementimes. The problem was they were green, so we thought they were bad. The problem was that we forgot that when oranges are green it just means there not totally ripe. Somehow we thought that it was like bread, which turns green (mold) when it's bad, so it took us a while to figure that out.

T+4 hours: I am crazy. I am so far gone that I actually gave up. When my girlfriend was wondering the apartment, I decided to sit in this little tiny back room next to the refrigerator and wait it out. My girlfriend, being the persistent little girl she is came in and sat with me and basically talked me through it somehow. The irony is that I'm about 1000x more experienced than her but she managed to talk me into being happy. At one point I saw a train go by the window and my girlfriend saw a little girl standing in the middle of the room pointing towards a chandelier.

At this point the music started getting overwhelming, my music selection was shitty as I kind of just figured pink Floyd would be amazing, but in fact it was so bizarre it was actually scaring me so we vigorously searched through my friend's selection and found Good Charlotte. Yes - good charlotte, we put it in and it was so corny that it made me happy! So were tripping out on the floor in her living room as my girlfriend is peeling/feeding me oranges and listening to Good Charlotte. By the way, eating fruit you like is a must; it beats any munchies I've ever ingested.

T+5 hours: At this point the mental part of the trip is diminishing, I have almost complete control of my mind which is wonderful because I'm totally not paranoid anymore and overall I'm just happy. But the great thing was, was the visuals were still increasing in intensity. The most beautiful patterns I've ever seen are appearing everywhere, everywhere I looked things were alive, and it was magnificent. On top of that, I was starting to melt from time to time. I would actually feel my fingers extending or growing or getting fat/thin and I'd see it as well. In fact I even showed my girlfriend how my fingers were stretching and she saw it as I saw it and as I felt it.

I was also, as well, able to control the movement of certain things with certain body parts, for example as my hand grew and shrank and moved I could move the door in that same fashion. As with looking at ourselves and each other, when I looked at my girlfriend her head would grow and shrink, and her eyes would grow huge, as well as her feet, but the rest of her body shrunk. It was if we were in Sonic the Hedgehog or Mario - actually she looked like a hedgehog, or tails from Sonic. At one point I saw my girlfriend was doing something weird with her arm, she was like trying to grab something in the sleeve of her sweatshirt with her hand. I asked her what she was doing and she said that her hand was lonely and wanted to meet another body part.

At one point we were standing in the kitchen and I was saying how I was hungry and could go for a snickers bar. All of a sudden she's like 'Yeah! Jesse.' and that was it. I knew the rest of what she was going to say as one time Jesse gave us a snickers bar when we came home rolling and needed food bad, I knew the rest of what she was going to say because her memory actually transferred to me visually, I saw it happen in front of my eyes at that moment.

T+6 hours: At this point the visuals are receding, but just barely, the thought process was still really weird/fun. We took up some recreational time by drawing; I drew on her as she drew on a piece of paper. It looks like a mushroom but upside down it's supposed to have facial features. This was my girlfriend's doing, creative eh?

T+8 hours: Sexual activity is fun, and were just having fun, things are still visually interesting, many things still breathing and swirling and very fun too look at, many patterns are still manifesting the house. We're laughing about a lot of things again and my girlfriend was sticking her tongue out at some poster cos she thought he was mean. haha.

T+9 hours we were still seeing visuals but my dad came and picked us up and brought my girlfriend home. When I came home I ate food, which was kinda icky, and talked to my girlfriend on the phone till 3 am - visuals were still here, I have some trippy shit in my room, lava lamps, electricity balls, etc. And they were making butterflies all over my ceiling.

The next morning I felt fairly fine, a bit brain dead. I wasn't too enthused to go to work for 6 hours, but managed to go and didn't do to bad. Currently, the next day at 7:30 pm I feel almost completely back to normal.

Overall this was probably the most intense, but greatest more glorious experience of my entire life. I will definitely do it again, maybe next time in a better setting like outside in a park or in my room at night with my girlfriend of course, after all she did save my sanity.
