Monica, hey, can I borrow the Porsche?
Ok.
Alright!
But ehm...what is it not?
A place to entertain my lady friends.
And what else is it not?
A place to eat spaghetti.
Very good! What do you need it for anyway?
Oh well, the powerball lottery is upto 300 million and they don't sell tickets here in New York, so...
Oh! So you're driving up to Connecticut?
Yeah Connecticut...Not West Virginia.
Hey, maybe I'll drive you up there! I'd like to buy some tickets myself!
Uh!
Yeah with Chandler not getting paid, we could really use 300 million dollars.
Yeah, because if I was at my old job we'd say 300 million? No thank you!
Hey will you get me tickets too?
Yeah me too. oh! I have an idea. Why don't we all pitch in 50 bucks, we'll pool our money together and then if we win, we'll split it!
yeah thats a great idea!
No thanks!
You don't wanna win the lottery?
Uh...sure I do, and I also wanna be King of my own country and find out what happened to Amelia Earhart.
Still on Amelia Earhart?
The woman just vanished!
Seriously, Ross, you don't want in on this?
No! Do you know what your odds are of winning the lottery? I...I mean you have a better chance of being struck by lightning 42 times.
Yes but there's six of us so we'd only have to get struck by lightning 7 times.
I like those odds!
Seriously you guys, I can't believe you're going to spend 250 dollars on the lottery, I mean that's such a bunch of boohaki.
Boohaki?
Oh oh, we think Emma is about to start talking so we're trying to be careful about what words we use in front of her.
Yeah so get ready to hear alot of ehm...boohaki, goshdarnit and brotherpucker.
How do you know she's gonna start talking?
Well when I talk to her I almost feel like she understands what I'm saying.
Kinda like Joey.
What's that now?
God! Look at all these tickets! It's so exciting! You know I haven't won anything since the sixth grade.
Pie eating contest?
Oh! You assume because I was heavy that's the only way I could win something?
No, I saw a picture of you covered in blueberries.
That was a good day!
They're towing your car, they're towing your car!!
I'm parked in a garage on Morton!
They're towing a car. And I am seeing...spots.
Where's Emma? Who has Emma!?
Joey relax! My mother picked her up two hours ago. You were there!
I was?
Yes and you talked to her...
I did?
She dropped off a casserole?
Oh yeah! The casserole lady.
So, did you come by to watch us win the big bucks?
Yeah, uh... and then I figured after you win, we could all go out to the balcony and see a night rainbow with gremlins dancing on top of it!Think he washed his hands?
Hello? Hey Charlie, what do you know?
What's going on?
Chandler is supposed to find out if he's getting an assistent job at his ad agency. But out of the 15 interns, they are only hiring three.
Ooh! Tough odds!
Yeah if only it were a sure thing like your 24 state lottery!
Look who's coming around!
Damnit. Alright call me when you know more.
Did you get it?
One of the slots got filled.
By you!?
Sense the tone! No that kid Nate got it.
Oh! I hate that guy! I mean come on kid! Pull up your pants!
Yeah I know.
Well, there's two spots left right?
Yeah...I mean I want this so much! I mean, I wanna get one, I want my friend Charlie to get one...Except I don't care about Charlie.
Hey you guys! Ok, you're not going to believe this! I just saw my psychic and she said I was definitely gonna win the lottery tonight!
Hey that reminds me, I thought we could use some extra luck so I brought a wishbone home from work.
A psychic AND a wishbone? Guys! Give someone else a chance!
Alright, who wants to do it?
Oh can I? Vegetarians never get to do the wishbone. It's really not fair either! You know, just because we don't eat the meat doesn't mean we don't like to play with the carcasses!
Ok, hey Rach?
Oh no, I'm good, I don't wanna get that turkey smell all over my hands.
I'll do it!! It'll get the casserole stink off of mine.
I hope I win!
Well, it doesn't really matter ... you're both wishing for the same thing, right?
I can't tell you what I'm wishing for! Else...you know...won't come true!
Right! .. but we "know" what you're wishing for!
Can't really say!
I understand, but you're wishing for what we think you're wishing for, aren't you?
I'm not really comfortable with these questions!
Please, just do it!
One, two, three!
I won, hey!
You know what, I'm sure your wish is gonna come true, but, you guys - just in case, maybe a genie will come out if we rub this lamp! Ah!! That thing gets hot!!
You know, Ross, just keep making your jokes. How are you gonna feel if we actually do win?
Uh, you're not gonna win.
Oh, I know, I know, the odds are against us, but somebody has to win, and it could be us! And then how you gonna feel? You know, we're gonna be all like "oh everybody, let's take our helicopters up to the cape" and you're gonna be all like "oh, I can't guys, I'll meet you guys up there, I gotta gas up the Hyundai"
Ok, I've heard myself on tape and I sound nothing like that.
I can see the headline now: "Lottery winners' friend filled with regret eats own arm".
Why would I eat my own arm?
Well you wouldn't, but we own the paper, we can print whatever we want.
You know what, Ross? I'm gonna throw in 50 bucks for you.
Why?
Because I know that you think the lottery is "boohaki" but we're all here and gonna watch the numbers and have fun. And you're my brother, and I want you to be a part of this.
You don't have to do that, I'll pay for myself. But just the fact that you want me to have fun with you guys - that's so sweet! Come here
Get a room!
Ok, so now that you're in, what are you gonna do if we win?
I don't know, probably just invest it.
Ooh! Calm down ...
Seriously, that's your fantasy? To invest it?
Oh, I'm sorry, did I say "invest it"? I meant "be cool and piss it all away"
Ooh, ooh, I know! We should pool all own money and buy the Knicks!
I don't really care about the Knicks.
Oh, you will when I pick you as starting forward.
You would do that? I never get picked!
You know, I'm not sure a sports team is the way to go.
You're not gonna let me buy the Knicks?? I can't believe you're taking this away from me!
You're right, it has been you dream for over 15 seconds.
Uh, how long until they announce the numbers, Mommy?
Uh ... Mommy?
Oh, I've gotten into the habit of calling Rachel "Mommy" when we're around Emma. Which I now realize we are not ...
I'm hoping that if she hears it enough it will be her first word.
Although if we're gonna do that, we should probably call me "Daddy" too.
Oooh, I like that, "daddy"
I ... I was just talking about Rachel.
Oooh, is daddy getting angry? Is daddy gonna spank me?
no I can't.
Hello? Hello? Oh, hey Charlie. Did anybody else hear? ... What? Susan got it?? How? Oh man, I would have slept with him!! .. Alright, bye.
Dude, I'm sorry. But hey, there's one spot left, right?
Well no, Charlie's gonna get that.
Hey, don't say that! You got just as good a chance as anybody else of getting that job!
He's the boss's son.
Come on, lottery!!
Ooh, you guys, it starts in like 20 minutes.
Ok, here we go. We need to sort out the tickets as quickly as possible to see if we've won. So does anybody have any ideas how to organize this? Ok, how about this: we divide them into 6 groups of 40, and the remaining 10 can be read by whoever finishes their pile first.
Ooh, I have another idea!
I'm sorry, idea time is over.
Ok, well, are all the tickets in the bowl?
Yeah.
What about the ones you have on the nightstand?
There are no tickets on the nightstand!
Yes there are, I just saw them a few minutes ago.
Un, no you didn't! You must be mistaken!
Honey, there are like 20 tickets on the nightstand!
Chandler, sense the tone!!
Well, well, well, look what mommy found!!
Ok, fine!! I bought 20 extra tickets for me and Chandler.
Uh! The psychic also said that I would be betrayed.
I can't believe this, I thought we were all in this together!
Hey, you just got in 5 minutes ago!
3 minutes ago!!! I don't know why that's important ...
I was with you the whole time we were in Connecticut, when did you even get those?
When you were reading the dirty magazines without taking off the plastic!
I'll show you how.
Ok, well Monica, suppose one of your "special" tickets win? How are you gonna feel when you win the lottery and you lose all your friends?
Please ... if I win the lottery, you guys are not gonna leave me. Someone gave me a basket of mini-muffins last week and I couldn't get rid of you for 3 days!
Chandler, would you just tell her what she did was wrong?
She's right, you shouldn't have bought tickets just for us ...
Ahhh!
Let me finish ...
There's the man I married!!
All right, believe me.If you win the lottery, it's the last you're gonna hear from us!
Fine! Don't be my friends! I'll buy new friends! Yeah, and then I'll pay for their plastic surgery so they'd look just like you!
!
Yeah, I want my tickets too ! And I'm buying the Knicks! And Steffi Graff, ah ah!
Than I want mine, too ! And if I win I'm gonna put it all into a very low-yield bond.
Oh, you guys! We've got to keep all the tickets together
No, no! We should divide them up and I should get extra because we used my card to buy them!
Hey, if anybody gets extra tickets, it should be me! This all thing was my idea!
Oh, yeah! Thanks for inventing the lottery!
Ok, that's it! Just give'em to me! I'll split them up!
Oh!
OOOOOHHHHH!
Hey, hey!!
Oh, if she jumps, I get her tickets.
No, no!
If we are not doing it together, we're not doing it at all! So, say goodbye to your tickets! .
NO!!
Don't come any closer!
Can I come a little bit closer, valuable things are getting squished...
No, what's more important, your friends or money?
Friends!
Money! Friends...
Hey Monica, what about your extra tickets?
They're all in there! Even these five that I hid in my bra ...
Monica!
Ok, good! I think I broke your bowl.
Go, go, go!!
What a beautiful night to be running around the street, looking for tickets. And the wind sure made it fun.
Phoebe, we lost half of them.
So, what? Monica, we have the winning ticket! My psychic said I was gonna win, remember?
Weird.. your psychic didn't mention anything about the scary pigeon...
As a matter of fact she said that's how I am going to die. So, excuse me for being a little skittish.
Hey, there's two messages. These could be from work!
Oh, play them!
Ok, here we go!
"I sh.. I shouldn't have knocked the tickets out of the pretty lady's hand. It-it was all my fault. Not hers. Bye. Coo."
Well, I bet that was very hard for him to do.
"Hey Chandler, it's Charlie"
This is..shhh!
"Listen, oh... it turns I got the last spot. I'm really sorry man, it was a lot of fun working with you. Give me a call if you want."
Oh God, I am so sorry honey...
Oh, so sorry man! Sorry!
Oh, it is so unfair. It's like that time they promoted Sandra over me at work.
Oh, is she related to Ralph Lauren?
No, she was just much better at job than me!
Guys, the drawing is about to start!
You know what? We should call my mum's house and say goodnight to Emma before she goes down.
Oh yeah, it's a good idea!
Honey, you've been really strong about this, I know how badly you wanted that job.
Yeah, you know, I really thought I deserved it. But... let's go win the lottery... I mean, we still have 130 chances to win, right?Ross:
Hi mum, put her back on!
Rach, come on! They are announcing the numbers! My God, I can already feel myself changing.
"Here we are, the official Powerball numbers! We have 53"
I got that!
Oh, we have one too!!
We are on a roll, people!!
Come on!!
Mum, please!I know you love your new lips, but I can barely understand you! Would you, please, just let me say goodnight to my daughter?
"And number 29! Here we go! The Powerball is 7"
Check your numbers! Make me rich!
Guys, you're not gonna believe this! I was just saying goodnight to Emma and she said her first words!!
Wow!
And what did she say?
She said "gleba"!!
Make me rich!!
Isn't that amazing?
Oh yeah, no no no...that's great!
Why-why aren't you more excited?
Oh, Rach...oh..."gleba" is not a word.
Oh, but of course it is!
Okay, what does it mean?
I don't know all the words.
I'm just, I'm just glad I didn't miss my daughter's first words .
Yes you did, gleba is a word!
Ok, use it in a sentence.
Ok... "Emma just said gleba"!
It's not a word!
Okay, okay, okay, fine, I'm gonna look it up .
Oh, oh, ok, great. You know what, while you're at it she said another word the other day, why don't you, why don't you look up: pbbqqt....
Gleba! Ha! Here it is: the fleshy, spore-bearing inner mass of a certain fungi.
She's gonna be a scientist!
Damnit! anybody got anything?
No.
I'm still looking through mine...
Just double checking No!
Hello? Hold on. It's your boss.
Ah, the "I'm sorry I rejected you" phone call. I'm not used to getting it from guys. Hey, Steve.
Chandler, hi! I'm sure you've heard we filled the three positions. We just felt that with your maturity and experience, you wouldn't be happy being someone's assistant.
Oh no no no no, I'd love to be somebody's assistant! Answering phones, getting coffee, I live for that stuff! And I'm not too mature... farts, boobies, butt cracks!
Chandler, you were the strongest person in the program. We're offering you the position of junior copywriter.
Me, that guy who just said butt cracks?
Yes, that's right. We're excited about the level of sophistication you'll be bringing to the job.
Ok well, thanks, you won't regret it. I'll see you tomorrow .
What? Oh, yeah, I'm gonna be a junior copywriter.
Oh my God, congratulations!
Oh sweetie, I'm so proud of you!
Does that mean I get the good loving tonight?
You bet! No TV or anything!
Hey, that is so great about the job.
Thanks, man.
And I like to think I had a little something to do with it.
Really? What?
Well, before, with the wishbone... I didn't wish we would win the lottery, I wished you'd get the job.
Listen, don't tell Monica, she'll rip your heart right out.
Oh yeah.
You know what? There is a little part of me that really thought we were gonna win.
Me too. So much for my dinosaur/Amelia Earhart theme park.
You guys, what was the Powerball number again?
Seven.
We won.
What?
We won!
Let me see!
Don't tear it.
Phoebe, you don't have any of the first five numbers.
I know that, but look, we've got the Powerball number, we've won 3 dollars!
Wow, you'd think we should get that over 20 years or go for the big payout.
I don't care, I've never won anything before, I can't believe this!
So Pheebs, what are you going to do with your $3?
It's not all mine. We all get 50 cents.
You know what? You can have mine.
Me too.
Me too.
Me too.
I guess if everybody else is...
Hey guys, so I just called the Powerball hotline, can you believe it? Nobody won.
I beg to differ .
Maybe nobody won the jackpot, but there was this guy in here earlier, and he found the ticket on the street, right outside, and won $10,000 .
Seriously, stop staring at her.