Rasta dem king of da jungle
Dreadlocks swing down me back like Repunzel
My bread run sling dem pack in a bundle
We'll take yo ting sell it back to yo uncle
And we'll make it rain till ya dances to come true
We'll make it rain till ya better bring a swim suit
Alone when I came but I'm leavin' wit dem too
Girls give me brain give me brain like Temple
And him got game game sharp like a pencil
Now if you want vermeils we can crash like a cymbal
Look upon me window I'm a new sports coupe
12 horses in da hood sittin' on horseshoes
Come from da land dat Jesus walk through
Sacrifice me life man I bleed for me own crew
Dem no wanna rum rum wit me dem no want to
Murder dem and da family dem belong to

Gangsta dem know it run da street like da car do
You can either leave me or dearly depart you
Hip hop is mines now mines what ya gone do
I can jump on any nigga song and make a part two
Play time for me 'cause see to me they are cartoons
How come every joint be on point like a harpoon
How come every bar stand strong like a bar stool
How come every line so raw you gone snort to
Murder dem man I murder dem
Fuck a competition man I murder dem
Man I murder dem man I murder dem
Fuck a competition man I murder dem


Wha wha, wha wha, wha wha, wha wha, what

Straight off the black gold, nuts in my hand, trustin' no man
Got my glock cocked, runnin' this thing, ya understand
We be steamin'.. blazin'.. nines, pumps, and K's, and
Holly Grove 17th, (what) the hood where I (what) was raised in (what)
Niggas bustin' heads and, runnin' duckin' Feds and
Rocks under they tongues and, ki's under they beds and
Hood fulla real niggas, twenty-four seven hustlers
Eh, until we shove a barrel down your pipe suckers
Ain't no love for no busta, no fear for no coward
No respect from no stunt, and no money without power
We keepin' niggas hotter, ewww nasty and sour
Pile up in the Eddie Bauer and BLAKA at every hour
Some niggas like that powder, foldin' up what they drain
Some like that weed or that dope and some shoot it up in they veins (oh)
From the home of that 'caine, jackin' and crackin' brains
Broadcastin' live from tha Block it's Lil Wayne (who it is?)

Juve: Nigga you got that yayo?
B.G.: Well cook something nigga
Juve: Nigga you let them K's go?
B.G.: Well bust somethin' nigga
Juve: Are you duckin' that law?
B.G.: You better run from 'em nigga
Juve: Are you playin' with that raw?
B.G.: Well won't you front somethin' nigga
(Wayne) Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha...

See where I'm from we keep our guns out
Dodgin' cops and burnin' blocks, so we be thugged out
It's time to floss, bring the big bodies on dubs out
And they got quarters, halfs, and birds in that one house (I got it)
(I got it) It's all good in the hood but a lot illegal
Soon as you get it, hot skirt, there go them people
Break up the block and hit the cut by the corner sto'
End up in Miss Taylor backyard, be quiet, she on the porch
This everyday, at the spot where niggas murder off top, boy
It's the spot where they got Fire Girls and Hot, Boys

We don't know what be goin' 'cause we so blunted from trees
And we'll be 'round you all day till we "400 Degreez"
And you see where niggas go, nobody be on the pulpit
They got a nigga got on a scarf, he flippin' out off that raw
Betta stay in yo' car, and make sure (beep beep) your door is locked
Cause this ain't nothing proper, cause Tha Block, is just Hot

Juve: Nigga you got that yayo?
B.G.: Well cook something nigga
Juve: Nigga you let them K's go?
B.G.: Well bust something nigga
Juve: Are you duckin' that law?
B.G.: You better run from 'em nigga
Juve: Are you playin' with that raw?
B.G.: Well won't you front something nigga
(Wayne) Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, Tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, Tha block is hot ha...

See watch your step on my set, gotta walk like, talk like
We done shot out all the street lights
So you can't see who we be like
And we like, to dress in all black up in my residence
Ain't got on no suits, 'cause we ain't tryin' to be presidents
And ever since the coke drought, niggas been on a trip y'all
So you better watch what y'all playin' wit
Cause a nigga will try to flip y'all
They hit y'all, jam you up and put a gun to your jug
Hah, catch your breath, now shhhhh, catch a slug
It's street smarts, plenty niggas that keep spots
When the heat starts, ain't nobody got sweethearts
Callin' weak shots, you could come try to cheap talk
We cut your week short, them lil' boys don't give a damn
Go all out for that cake, won't hesitate to kill a man
Run in his house and kidnap the nigga, him and his fam
Tie 'em up put 'em in the vans, then put a gat in his jaws
... Tch, one move blow his cactuses off

Juve: Nigga you got that yayo?
B.G.: Well cook something nigga
Juve: Nigga you let them K's go?
B.G.: Well bust somethin' nigga
Juve: Are you duckin' that law?
B.G.: You better run from 'em nigga
Juve: Are you playin' with that raw?
B.G.: Well won't you front somethin' nigga
(Wayne) Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha, ha-ha
Tha block is hot, tha block is hot ha...

Whoot! Some people call me 'cause tha block is hot
Shk-a-blaow! Bust ya guns 'cause tha block is hot
Nigga chshhhhh, cook it up, 'cause tha block is hot
Say look Daddy, just hook it up, 'cause tha block is hot
Nigga whoot! Some people call me 'cause tha block is hot
Shk-a-blaow! Bust ya guns 'cause tha block is hot
Nigga chshhhhh, cook it up, 'cause tha block is hot
Say look Daddy, just hook it up, 'cause tha block is hot
Nigga my block hot, nigga my block burn
My block on fire, nigga what about yours?
Nigga my block hot, nigga my block burn
My block on fire, nigga what about yours?
The block is hot ha ha ha ha


(Big Tymers)
Mannie: Wha, wha, yeah... yeah...
Baby: Without a doubt...
Mannie: All true...
Baby: Say it... I mean, since you love to shine...
(Big Tymers... Fresh..) (Tymers...)
Mannie: Yeah, Yeah, Yeah...
Baby: (Big Diamonds... Big Tymers...)
Mannie: Yeah, yeah...

Mannie (of Big Tymers):
I put 'Cris stains on private planes, 'cause it's my jet,
Nigga, money ain't shit cause my rottweilers drink 'Moet.
Diamond baugette bracelets... for my lovers...
Playa, I use 'Cristal to lubricate rubbers...
Who got, shit on his wrist that cost three nickel?
Who got, the project on lock when that nigga slangin' pickle?
Who got a, benz, a prowler--playboy--and a 'Vette...
Tell the truth, who fucked ya' on the same night when we met?
Now, who got baby mama's from N.O. to New York?
Who got, every bitch attention in this muthafucka' when he talk?
Now who the fuck we talkin' bout, look--Y'all don't know?
I'll give you a hint... See that bitch you with? He fucked that ho.
Now look here, y'all ain't seen my watch? It's like Harlem World video,
White diamonds, red rubies, blue baugettes, I don't know...
Shorty, whens the next time I'm'a be up in your bed,
I love you? You love me? Well go head on, and give me some head...

Juvenile: (Chorus 2x)
Loud pipes, Big rims,
Whodi, that's our life...
When we pull up at the club,
Sorry, that's our night...
I know a lot of haters out there,
Sayin', that that's not right...
But our diamonds are much bigger,
So, that's our life...

Baby (of Big Tymers): No doubt, Juve'! Lah-lah...
I told Sol, "I need somethin' with some hell of a ice," (Ice...)
Nigga came back with a hell of a price... (Price...)
That ain't nothin', these ho's doin' hell'a wrong... (Violatin')
Callin' these niggas on our cell phone, (Violatin')
Bitch ridin' Benz on twenty-inch chrome, (Chrome..)
Gimme the key, the car ho, and the alarm... (All my shit..)
For my Prowler, my Jag, my Benz and my home, (Give it here...)
Bitch, you'll never ride twenty-inch chrome... (Neva' Neva' Neva')
I love to shine, that's why the choppa's mine, (Mine...)
Hit my block in my Benz, ho, with stretch tires, (Tires...)
Bought a new car that I couldn't drive, (Drive...)
Brought it to 'Tunes before a nigga could sign, (Sign right here...)
Now put the Bose system right behind my eyes, (Eyes...)
With the VC's and TV's, so a nigga could shine... (Shine...)
Let my ice **Bling Bling** like a nine to five, (Five...)
And tell all my ho's, they don't need no job (No job, whodi...)

Juvenile: (Chorus 2x)

BG: I ride the best...
From a Benz, to a Jag, to a Beamer, to a Lex,
Might fly first class on Delta, helicopter, or a jet,
I'm a stunna, I'm a reppa, G'zy like to shine,
Drink Don, Moet, and Crissy, that's the finest wine,
Twenty inches is the only thing I'll sit my shit on,
Don't bring ya' bitch around me, cause my dick she'll wanna sit on,
And I ain't gon' tell her nothin' different, that's ya issha, (Issue..)
But after she come back, your best out is not to kiss her,
Ho's sick, sayin' damn, look at Fresh pinky ring,
Look at BG watch, that bitch bling-aling-aling...
I'm a ice wearer, trust me, you will never,
See me sportin' nothin' that ain't 20 G's or betta,
Me and Wayne take the left, Juvy and Baby take the right,
It's dark in the room, we hold up our watches and it's light,
Cash Money Millionaires livin' a hell of a life,
Like my nigga Weezy said, "Surrounded by iceee..."

Juvenile: (Chorus 2x)

Lil Wayne: Whoa... Whoa... Whoa...
Now, I'm shinin, beamin, glossin, Big Tymin, stuntin, and flossin...
Lamborghini sit on broaders, with two more in my garages...
Plus, a blue and black Ferrari, with Nintendo and Atari,
Man, I swear the car is awesome... Vroom! Sorry, we lost 'em...
I'm back, I pull up smellin' like dimesacks and 'Conyac...
I leave in a Hummer, hour lata' I'm flyin' back,
Sshhhhh... private jet's about to land,
The women fall out when I let 'em touch my hand,
I get out the plane into a Mercedes-Benz van,
TV's all over with chrome twenty-inch fans,
Damn... God - damn... Man - I am... L-I-L... Weezy, off the heezy...
But still and all, ice floodin' out my watch,
And in my grill and all, Porche Box', run blocks,
SKRRT! Peelin' off, Me and Slim in a Rover,
Beatrice... Brick holder, Cash Money young soldier... Whoa!

Juvenile: (Chorus 3x)

Juvenile:
Mmmmmmmmmmmm... Wheezy-Wee...
Cash Money Millionaires in this muthafucka,
Respect it, or check it!
My nigga, BG'zy, My nigga Mannie Fre'zy,
My nigga, Baby...
Fuck y'all rest of y'all niggas...
Ya heard me?


What what nigga huh huh
Nigga what what what check
I'm shooting flees
Polluting you and your niggas

Better run from me
Coming through in that strap
With a two twenty three
You be losing your life

When you caught up in beef
What nigga, nigga she
Now I ride and ride
With a K on my side

Bet this jai fly and fly
Nigga you won't be for I

I hope you lying but why
In the middle of the night
I be fatigued
Camouflaging by

By by the by by by what
Nigga what taking me for joke
And watch me heard you
Boy they be commercial

I'll beat them till they purple
I'm live any nigga
But I got a big oh chop tools

That'll kill bitter niggas
Did you do it
Thought it was cool
But you still in it nigga

You're so ugly with your boys
But I'm still pretty nigga
Lil' Wayne representing
I cut like blades

I bust breads and break legs
I tear up dreads
Take my our breads
Now cold figure
Why from the seventeen

I bang down from gold nigga
Had me for go beat the go carts
On your block with four triggers
Man y'all niggas ain't up with this

Y'all eating one me
You could suck my dick
Now taking a chill but
Realer you could play if you want

Find you something in the back of my trunk
Oh feminine funk

Nigga what huh
Nigga what you gon' do
Nigga huh what what
What you gon' do

I say what huh huh
What you won't do
Nigga huh what what
What you won't do

I be Wayne Wayne Wayne
From C-M-B fifty shots
Slang flang flang
From artillery

But look they sting sting sting
Burn like rubber on streets
Urrh if you can't hang
Find your way from around me

Litle soldier all for A-N-E
Appley ego my niggas
So ain't no playing me
Yeah I may be

A little small and all that
But I'm about war tone a get
Flipping a car and all that
Freeze me and my shit

Please hit your hood like fleas
Solider rag black boys
Why you teasing Rees
Please tell me that you was full of weed

Then things won't be
I don't think none of y'all families
Gon' see y'all bleed
I know what the hell it be

Niggas start his nothing of speed
I be ten D and two twenty threes try trees
Rabbit told me not to be weed
And let a nigga play me

So he who take the biggest bite of all of his teeth
Hook up with Ju turp and B.G.
Open niggas like key
Gee I bet that some gees boy

Where the H be
Us thieves seem beaters
Make a scene off a keys
All y'all please need to cease

Raah cheese
Nigga what huh
What you won't do
Nigga what nigga what

Huh what you won't do
I say what huh what
What you won't do
Nigga what huh

What you won't do
Look dog you could be stupid
Why they all be J ball
All you try to call

The block and get 'em all
Whole nation gon' fall
Lil' Wayne spent the cut
Put your guns up nigga what

I clutch your butt
Nigga go and hide
When I ride
I blow the forty five

And explode on your side
And niggas like a Mario
Tools for me
Now it's been a nigga use to me

On the three five diaomond dust
Just waiting niggas could take me
Entice a caden
Nigga if you won't walk with me

It's gon' be about your issue
Put this set with my nigga
Thanks to pitcher
Look at nigga dressed in black

With a big old cut
Fred your house pow
I love my nigga what
Nigga what huh

What what you won't do
Nigga what huh what
What what you gon' do
What you won't do

Yeah I say huh
What nigga what you won't do
Have me in all black
Busting back at your crew

I say what huh
What what you won't do
I say huh what
Nigga what you won't do

Nigga what huh
Nigga what you won't do
Have me in all black
Busting at your crew

What what what
Huh huh huh
Nigga, nigga, nigga what
Y'all want nigga

What y'all niggas want
Do nigga what
Huh huh


(Lil Wayne)
Got a early call from Kisha
Kisha wanted me to meet her
She said she thought it was time to make the relationship get deeper
Said cool then l'm gone be there
What would be a good time to reach ya
She said what about ten but l thought eleven would be sweeter
'Cause she wanted me to see her
Said l needed a teaser
But shit who got the keys to my Beamer
I rolled me up a blunt and got the Crystal out the freezer
I hopped in the two seater
Left Ne-Ne with Macita
Vroooom speed up run faster than a cheetah
Only thing on my mind is how l'm gone get all in this cheap slut
Should I use a rubber 'cause I heard she was a freak
They say she ???
But I don't want HIV
?????
Her name's on my beeper
I called her on the Nokia
And told her come pick me up
As soon as I got in the house she got on her knees and grabbed my penis
Ate it up like some peanuts
I said ooh Kisha
This what I got to meet her
She drunk it like a 2 liter
She blow like a pro
Oh no I got to keep her
Told her l'd be back about eleven I'm gone creep her
But don't go to sleep
I got some more meat to feed ya

(Turk)
Now I'm hot
I wonder was up with Kisha tonight
I'm gone give her a call
See if it's all right
For me to dip through
She said it's all gravy
First I got to get somebody to watch my baby
Baby it's all good
I'll be there in a minute
She didn't know I knew Wayne was already hittin it
Soon as I pull up I see my dog runnin' out
He saw me dippin in but he didn't know ???
Soon as he pulled off
I knocked on the door
Sayin' to myself look at this dog ass hoe
Its cool what you do
You know I like my shit sucked
For you to swallow the cum and put ice on my nuts
Call my nut now I'm up
I'm gone holla at ya Kittie
I got through lil tonight me and the H-Beezey
I can't be late
I'm gone see ya when I could
Here's Juve on the hip
Let 'em know it was all good

(Juvenile)
Ooh Ooh there she go
On the way to the corner store
Lil Turk let me know
We done fucked the same bitch before
Say lil mama where you headed
She told me for Danny
Hop in the back seat of my car and she spread it
Say baby slow down I don't wanna fuck ya first
I want you to suck on my dick until my nuts will burst
She was a fool with it
She said she had a good teacher she went to school with it
'Cause she knew what to do with it
I didn't want the bitch to have my car smellin
So I took her in the alley with some K Y Jelly
Pull your shorts and your draws down to your knees
Put the rubber on the dick handle that please
I hit it she sucked it
Hit it she sucked it and sucked it
I got tired of the pussy and now I said fuck it
Say boo I gotta ride
My baby moma beepin me and she stay way on the other side
I hit B.G. on the celly
And told him that the bitch was all good and you have it not to telly

(B.G.)
Bitch hold on do I know she fucked three of my dogs
I caught her walkin' out the alley down by the mall
She fucked Wayne, Juve, Turk I know she ain't got no walls
But she told me she'd do a damn job on them boys
She provided the number later on gave her a call
Told her what I was thinkin' and she was down with it all
Can't deny it she was a fool kept that dick standin tall
What she'll do to a nigga she'll be against the law
That's how Hot Boys play it when we finish we toss
Baby when you finish Manny Fresh down the hall
After this episode that hoe won't be able to walk
After two or three steps that hoe might fall
Now you know then Hot Boys sad ha
Get in the bitch head
End up doing somethin' bad ha
Kisha got did right yeah
Fucked the whole Cash Money click all in one night yeah


(BG)
Niggas be hatin'
'Cause BG got it
Every top of the line car they got
Look I ride it
&gt;From the Hummer to the Rover
To the drop jag
B and C lex truck
Nothin' my click ain't had
Everybody head was fucked
When they heard 'bout the deal
Cash Money hot boys climbed for 30-mill
Already was straight now we livin' larger
Already was ballin' now we ballin' harder
??? Bitches can't take me
Cause my wrist stay flossed out
Niggas hate me cause all day I'm flossed out
Ghetto made me
My dog, Baby, saved me
Niggas find out they hoe got fucked, ??
That's how it go
It ain't my fault I got mega cheese
Walk that walk
Talk that talk I'm BG
Paperchaser to the fullest get my grind on
Gotta do it 'cause I made that song Get Yo' Shine On

Me and my click be sizzlin' hot steamin'
Bouncin' through diamonds high beamin'

(Wayne)
Wha
I'ma flosser baby, baller baby
A fifteen year old shot caller baby
And I'm racin' through
In the all black chrome
A Mercedes Coupe
Got yo' wife at my house
And she naked too
And all my niggas all around
Sayin' 'Shake it Boo, go ahead to what you do'
It's Weezy dog and off the heezy dog
And I'm surrounded by the ice
It got me freezin' dog
And it's plain and simple
Won't change 'cause it's natural
Lil Wayne a pimp y'all
Got the game from Beatris
I'm trying to see six numbers
Pull up at the Grammy awards in six Hummers
Leave the Grammy awards with six womens
And make a stop at the gas station for six rubbers
Put it together
This is the life when you get full of the cheddar
Don't try to end it or you wouldn't get better, what

(Wayne)
La, la, la, la
Here I come star rapper
I get the fast money
Short, cute hot boy that rapper Cash Money
Standin' out the roof of my car
And flash hundreds
Take your girl to the mall
Spend a G like that's nothin'
She lay on the floor
Open up the spot
Take off her draws
Let me see the cunt
Don't stop Lil' Weezy
We's ain't nothin' nice
But gats in my Jesus Christ
Nothing but ice
When they see me at night
Behind ?? I stay high
Snatch yo' wife
Run up in her with the K-Y
But it's on man
Ever since I was born Wayne
Nigga get out of line
I get dirty like John Wayne
I'm bout stuntin', flossin'
Whatever come with it
And I don't shoot guns
Unless they have a drum wit it
At first they wasn't wit it
Thought that I was jokin'
Now I got 'em all payin' attention like they owe it


(Lil Wayne)
Cut the lights off nigga (Cut 'em off)
You know what time it is (What)
You know what time it is (What)
Strap -Up (Gun Cocks)

A lot of niggas better move out
Cause here I come with my click
With the tools out
All of a sudden all these cowards
Startin' to spook out
It's warfare a buncha of niggas
Bout to lose out
It's time to load up them thangs
Hit the spot run in his house
And make 'em show up then thangs
Take 'em in the room go in his pockets
And then blow up his brain
No matter the weather
Rain, snow, sleet, or hail
I'ma slang that metal
So tell 'em niggas in yo' hood
To get it together
'Cause I'm the tolas mario
And we down for whatever
Never underestimate or you goin' under
Y'all keep on playin' with Lil Wayne
But that lil' boy trouble
And plus this shorty be full, wodie
Be scorin' bundles, them start wildin' and
Hit the block and let his toys rumble
And it go ratter tatter
Ya be surprised how niggas scatter
When the M-1 shatter
And everybody on they block
They get bout ten in they bladder

Tell 'em lights off
Mask on
Creep silent
Your life's gone
We done left the block quiet

La
When it's time to ride
It ain't no time to play
It could be time to die
At any time of the day
And I'll be goddammit
If I let a nigga steel me
It will not happen
I'ma fire about a hundred and fifty shots at 'em
And got my glocks rammin'
Leave a nigga spot damaged
That's how the beat made us
I chief three blunts
So I can get a head rush
Then come around the corner
And your whole day crush
I'm sick and tired
Niggas choosin' test a boy
They get hit and die
Some of 'em scared of man slaughter
So they stay inside
And watch they partner get lit up
And then they ask why
That's cause you played wit' me
They couldn't of known I'm'a guerilla
Drama stayed with me
Run in his home went to kill him
Took his head with me
You better get it right or keep it right
Or lose your whole town
Tell em' lights off
It's about to go down

Massacre all these streets block it off
Lil Wayne in yo' hood
With something like a rocket dog
And I'm after ya
I don't pass beef
I stop at all
That boy got a head on his shoulders
I knock it off
I'm highly intoxicated mixing krystelle and vodka
Somebody call the doctor
Cause my chopper done went blocka, knocka
Nigga out the way man
I'm sorry but us guerillas we can't stay tamed, say it man
Are you ready, ready
Ready for warfare Wayne, Turk, Juvi, and BGeezy they all there
We all flare, don't care, dog they all tear
Give the guns to the one with the long hair
Dem block burner
It gets quiet they see the rims twenty four seventy
(Breathes) they breathe heavily
Bullets they come steadily
You better stay off the block
Cause you might fall
You better stay off the block
Cause the lights off

(Lil Wayne)
Lights off
Tell 'em lights off
La, la, la lights off
Nigga lights off
We done left the block quiet


Look, look, look

A young nigga screamin fuck the world and let 'em die
Behind tints, tryna' duck the world and smokin' rie
Got my bandanna 'round my head and pants to my feet
And got my eyes fire red and glock on my seat
I'm tryna' stay under intoxication
'Cause I lost my father, and got a daughter, plus I'm on probation
I'm drinkin' liquor like it's water, gettin' pissy drunk
And stayin away from them lil' broads that tryin' to give me some
I keep a chopper in the trunk and my heat on my wasteline
Duckin the law, 'cause I ain't tryna' do no FED time
Sometimes I just wish I could be away
But I gotta take care of everything and keep macita straight
So I just maintain the struggle and I keep tryin'
But how can I when my closest people keep dyin'
I ain't lyin' that the law tryna' bust my clique
But I scream fuck the world man, I'm too young for this

Look, I don't curse, but in this verse man, fuck the world
I lost my father to a gun and made a little girl
And I'm still thuggin' wit' my niggas tryna' keep it real
And I'm still doin' for my mother and I'm payin' bills

Give me a cigarette, my nerves bad
The FEDs said they heard that I know where them birds at
And my old lady say she saw me with anotha Brizzah
And some a the boys shot up my block so now I gotta kill 'em
And teachers keep tellin' my momma that I'm gettin' worse
And now she trippin' talkin' 'bout I need to be in church
And my lil' girl whole family tryna' lie in court
Tryna' put me, a child, on child support
And my own family deny me of what I do 'cause I'm a 'thug and stuff'
Plus, my niggas keep fallin' to them drugs and stuff
That dope got these niggas meltin away
Man they got clowns right around me, killin' they self everyday
We keep fightin but they so strong
I know it's hard but don't give up baby hold on
Just keep ya fate, count blessings, and wodie keep ya trust
And grab ya nuts and let 'em know that we don't give a fuck
We don't give a fuck

Look, I don't curse, but in this verse man, fuck the world
I lost my father to a gun and made a little girl
And I'm still thuggin' wit' my niggas tryna' keep it real
And I'm still doin' for my mother and I'm payin' bills

I mean the world just ain't gon' never change
So I just keep my head up and my nuts, let 'em hang
Dawg I swear it's very rough out here for the youngstas
Like everybody against me 'cause I'm a young thug
Dear Rabbit, why they have to kill Rabbit?
But I'ma keep you alive, nigga, I'm Lil' Rabbit
That's why this lil' nigga be buggin like it's no tomorrow
I only can depend on macita and C-M-R
I try my best to make it through the night and live today
But I'm upset so I'm steady wipin' tears away
And police got me under surveilance when and wherever
Wreckin they brains, tryna' figure where I'm gettin' that cheddar
I tell my family just leave me a-damn-lone
I can handle all a my business, this lil' man grown
But I try to forget about it and just stand strong
But if everythang was cool I wouldn't write this damn song
Fuck the world

Look, I don't curse, but in this verse man, fuck the world
I lost my father to a gun and made a little girl
And I'm still thuggin' wit' my niggas tryna' keep it real
And I'm still doin' for my mother and I'm payin' bills


Say, Weezy
(Weezy)
Can they remember me?
Lil' Weezy

Make 'em remember, ya, nigga
(Ha)
Let these niggas know your background, nigga
(Look, look)
Let 'em know your background
(Look, look)
Let 'em know how you've been for a while

All I was taught was murder murder
Kill drama and nothin' less
I strap tha Smith-Wess and bust it in they chest

I had ta hustle, hustle, hustle, hustle
Had ta struggle for success
Hid grams in girls' breasts
Stick bricks under they dress

Them niggas there with me fooli'
Me, I'm full of that dilly
Hope when I catch them slippin'
Him and they daddy's trippin'

Shorty can hold it down
Shorty be totin' rounds
Smellin' like a pound on school grounds

Shorty, wow, hair all over my head
Bandana 'round my brain, eyes bloodshot red
Briches down to my legs, guns up in my trench
When niggaz playin', they get drenched

My pockets is full of lead
So, nigga, stay off the Benz, I'm young with bad nerves
Since I lost my father, I've been troubled hurt and disturbed
So I'on't even hesitate to leave 'em on tha curb
And wet dem niggaz shirt, nigga, get 'em full of birds
Tell them niggaz, Geezy

Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Took one to tha chest but Weeze Wee never die
Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Have B.Geezy on his side, so Weezy Wee never die

Lil' Weezy Wee had ta steal, hustle and jack
Weezy Wee roll with K's, glocks and MAC's
Tha little G, he was raised keepin' it real
That's my lil' nigga, I taught him to get it how he live, nigga

Look, look, that time I forgot tha bills
Ain't been home in two weeks
Macita lookin' for me
Tha word all over tha streets

Well, shit, I love my momma
But all I got ta offer is drama
And many problems, I lay back in tha cut

These niggas out and I rob 'em
They ain't spin around here
We all alone on my block
Like nobody live 'round here

Tha lights got cut off at my house
And now I'm lookin' for a window
I can't see it, I'ma drop my pile on tha floor
They got some niggas stuntin' in Benz

Hey man, them boys ain't riders
Hand it over, partna, my feet done got tired
(Break it off)
Well, picture this, I gotta corner this ole nigga address
He said he got that work
And needed me ta meet I'm there
(Meet him there)

Nigga, take your Roly down
With somethin' shady, daddy
(What?)
Within a week he changed his mind
And received tha package
(What?)

Oh well, back to tha drawin' board
(Board)
Cowards start hollerin'
'Cause they know I'm comin' for it

Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Took one to tha chest but Weeze Wee never die
Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Have B.Geezy on his side, so Weezy Wee never die

Lil' Weezy Wee had ta steal, hustle and jack
Weezy Wee roll with K's, glocks and MAC's
Tha little G, he was raised keepin' it real
That's my lil' nigga, I taught him to get it how he live, nigga

Lemme tell 'em, you remember
That there nigga use ta be thuggin' it out
Blunt in his mouth, would stay passed up in a drought
Run in your house, "Lay down, nobody move
Tell that slut go get your stash and empty your pockets, fool"

That's how it was crime, struggle, drivin' for scrubs
Lots of thugs make niggas come ta answer them up
Some niggas choose ta come back to me, ride around my set for me
My lights off that thing 'cause I got that SKS with me

Okay
(Okay)
Listen, all you ballin' niggas betta relocate
(Locate)
'Cause, see, y'all got it
I gotta make my cheese rotate
(Rotate)

Right now I'm doin' bad
So just give me with whatever you have
My stomach hurt, I need a bag
I'm street-livin' week for week

No, sleep livin', look outside ya window
In tha mornin', your jeep missin'
My heat sizzlin', I'm ready ta sweep these niggas
Geezy make 'em remember Weezy, nigga

Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Took one to tha chest but Weeze Wee never die
Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Have B.Geezy on his side, so Weezy Wee never die

Lil' Weezy Wee had ta steal, hustle and jack
Weezy Wee roll with K's, glocks and MAC's
Tha little G, he was raised keepin' it real
That's my lil' nigga, I taught him to get it how he live, nigga

Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Took one to tha chest but Weeze Wee never die
Remember he? Tha little G, never die
Have B.Geezy on his side, so Weezy Wee never die

Lil' Weezy Wee had ta steal, hustle and jack
Weezy Wee roll with K's, glocks and MAC's
Tha little G, he was raised keepin' it real
That's my lil' nigga, I taught him to get it how he live, nigga

Look, remember that?
Wuz up
(Are you rememberin', B.Geezy?)
I remember you, nigga
We go way back ta true story, nigga, ya heard me
(Now)

Look, you don't remember me?
I remember ya, nigga
I was, I was a bad dog, highly
(You were doggin', you were a lil' dog)
Grove 17, off top, nigga
(Uh, huh)


(Lil' Wayne)
What what what
What what what
What what what
Listen, listen
When... I come through... bustin'
Everybody on... tha block be... run-nin'
Weezy Wayne, Hot Boy, I... be... thug-gin'
Got... them... things... ten up, keep... hustlin'
Catch me at tha shop, I will... be... there
And my prices stay low, I keep... it... there
And if you want it raw, I got... it... right... here
And if you want war, I am... your... nigh-tmare
This is all I know, it's bang bang
I hustle and slang slang
My block... I hang hang
Who am I? Lil' Wayne, man
I represent CMB
My cell is ten in heat
I usually get in beef
Was taught that it's him or me
I pop head-bustas quick
I rock here for my brick
I chop that, I'ma (?)
My shop here ??
I always... thug in black
And always... bustin' gats
Your girly's... fuckin' back
Now how you... lovin' that

(Chorus 2x, Juvenile)
Hot Boy$, wardy... respect... us
Represen-tin' Cash Money... Records
It's warfare, you betta... vest... up
But if you ain't scared, they blow... your... set... up

(Lil' Wayne)
Listen, listen
I give it to 'em how they ask me
Raw and nasty
Tha AK, I pack it
Believe I'm 'bout that action
Slash a busta like a fraction
I'm on that yolla
Standin' on tha corner with one sleeve over my shoulder
Ride on your block, I see a dozen of weak jerks
Now it's time for your momma ta order a dozen of T-shirts
For only half-a brick
I'll blast tha fifty
And I ain't gon' stop shootin' till I jam tha clip
Yeah, I'm a small creeper, what
But it's about ta get ugly
Y'all betta call people up
I'm about ta start shovin' my sawed-off between your guts
Wayne 'bout ta (cugghh-gghh-gghh) ball people up
Y'all betta duck
When it get real, they hide from me
But, all them bustas 'bout ta get killed, I'm tired of it
Man, I'm thuggin' till tha day I... I die, cousin
Weezy Wee... let 'em burn, bring tha fire truck in... (whoooo!)

Nigga, let it be known
I'll come blow up your home
Take a few blunts to tha dome
And... show up alone
Just me and my... flame-torch
Wayne start... danger
Walked with my head down like a stranger, and banged ya
Burnin' off that Hennesy
Some-a y'all be feminine
Bounce in with a twitch
Leave 'em crawlin' out a ditch
God damn... son of a shhh!.. Don't speak
I cocked that, and let it go, tssss!.. Give 'em heat
Your cheese, I got... ta... get... paid
I'm goin' all out, no matter what... it... takes
I... was... raised... up on... that... paper
Kill-for-the-scrill was... in... my... nature
Tote M1's and keep... tha... block... hot
Sell wrong colts to keep... my... glock... hot
Never add taxes to... my... price, man
And if a boy play, I ride... at... night, man
What!

(Juvenile)
Uh, uh, uh
Say Lil' Weezy
You did this one here, ya heard me
They ain't gon' never get weared out from this one
It's like they said, boy
In tha year 2000, it's all about Wayne
It's your chrome, man, run that thang
17th ward to tha 3rd ward downtown
Do that there
Huh, huh, huh, huh


(Lil Wayne)
Drop, drop, drop, what what what
After you back it up then stop
What, what, wha, drop it like its hot
After you back it up and stop
What, what, wha, drop it like its hot
Now drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
Make em' drop it like its hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot

Hehe, listen
(Verse 1- Lil wayne)
You know me girl
I'm a cash money millionaire look at my Rolie (Rolex) girl
Drop to your knees top ya hair, ah ah slow me girl
Now hit it strong, won't be long, now catch it slowly girl
No he didn't say that, yes I did girl
I don't use rubbers, and I don't plan no kids girl
I don't want your number, I want your trouble, in ya skins girl
Then after that, you can get it how you live girl
That's on the real girl, I'm a pimp girl
Get it twisted, I'll slam you like Shawn Kemp girl
I know my neck get it hot like a lighter girl
I just slap you a couple of times, never fight it girl
That's 'cause I likes it girl
And let me tell you somethin' girl, I am a player girl
So don't you try to play me 'cause I never save a girl
Do me a favor girl, and wet the spot girl
And after you back it up, drop it like its hot girl

(Chorus - Lil wayne)
Now after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha drop it like its hot
Now after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha, drop it like its hot
Make em' drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
Make em' drop it like its hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot

(Verse 2-B.G.)
First time need you to bend both knees
Wobble that ass right, then pop that pussy
The left one time, the right two times (whoa)
Show a nigga somethin', put it on a nigga mind, come on, come on
Nice workin, bitch
Ain't no need to hold it in, what you workin with
You want a Hot boy, hear me, work it bitch
Then break a nigga off, let me hurt you bitch, let me hurt you bitch
I'm on fire yeah
I'm nasty and I'ma make you holler yeah
Girl think I'm playin', I'ma freak ya down
I'ma show you how we do it on ?VL? Uptown, I'm wanna hear you make the move
Ooh B.g sounds, I wanna hear you say aw boy you laid that down
Aw you laid that down
I'm hot yeah, people say I'm off the block
But I won't stop till you drop it likes its hot

(Chorus-Lil Wayne)
Now after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha drop it like its hot
Now after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha, drop it like its hot
Make em' drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, make em' it like it's hot
Make em' drop it like its hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot

(Verse 3 - Lil Wayne)
I'm a rider boy, the hottest boy, respect me
'Cause I'm on fire boy, on fire boy
Got them trees, holler boy, holler boy
Bout my cheese, them dollars boy, dollars boy
I'm a seventeen survivor boy, with choppers boy
I got guns that go BLOCK A boy, BLOCK A boy
Y'all runnin' with a monster boy, reason Wayne callin y'all
And I'm a mobster boy, hit it right I get my ball on like soccer boy
I keep it right I ain't gon thaw it off I'm a Tymer Boy
Go up in flames blockburner that's my motto boy
It ain't a game, I cock that 'cause I'm inside a boy
I'm a pimp, got a wife that'll holler boy
Catch her at the house steppin out the shower boy
(Shhhhhhhh) hehehehehe, got a lotta boys
Claim to be soldiers but lies boy
And if I catch 'em I'ma bat 'em and make 'em retire boy
(Mannie Fresh)
But a hump in your back and bend your rump
Hey sexy little mama we can do the hump
And you can hurt me hurt me, sex me sex me (what)
(Lil Wayne)
And after he finished, next me next me
(Mannie Fresh)
Work it jerk it pull it hold it grab it (whoa)
I need it eat it beat it, silly rabbit (ooh)
Ha, I stuffed you in the ass (ooh)
Got this thang up in ya like a snake in the grass (sss)
I know you wish you could go home (go home)
To a nigga with a dick like a python (python)
Stank bitch ya like a off the hook telephone (telephone)
Got ya walkin' round with nothin' but a fuckin' thong (wha?!)
Take the switch out on these freaks because 'cause I'm so wrong
(Lil wayne)
So wrong, so wrong, so wrong
Drop (wha) so wrong, listen, listen, listen

(Chorus-Lil wayne)
Now after you back it up then stop
Then what, what, wha drop it like its hot
Now after you back it up then stop
Then what, what, wha, drop it like its hot
Make em' drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
We make em' drop it like its hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
(Lil wayne)
Tell em' after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha drop it like its hot
We tell em' after you back it up then stop
What, what, wha, drop it like its hot
We make em' drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
Make em' drop it like its hot, drop drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot, drop drop it like it's hot
(Lil wayne)
They go wobblety wobblety, wa a wobblety wobblety
Wa a wobblety wobblety, drop drop it like its hot
Make 'em wobblety wobblety, wa a wobblety wobblety
Wa a wobblety wobblety, wa a drop drop it like its hot
Now after you back it up then stop
Wha wha wha, drop it like its hot
They gotta wobblety wobblety wa a wobblety wobblety
Wa a wobblety wobblety, drop drop it like it's hot
Tell 'em after you back it up then stop
Then wha, wha, wha, drop it like its hot
Make 'em after you back it up then stop
Then wha, wha, wha, drop it like its hot
Drop it like it's hot drop drop it like its hot
Drop 'em like it's hot, drop it like it's hot
Drop it like it's hot drop drop it like its hot


(Lil Wayne)
He he hee
I'm a young playa nigga, (what)
I get the game from the big tymers, nigga (what, what)
Who else? (Speak on it) On the real nigga, on the real nigga
Respect the game
'Cause I got the game

(Lil Wayne)
Y'all know who I is
Weezy coming through in the bubble eye Benz
See me front in back with the wood all around
Plus I got that surround sound
Don't hate on me boy if you do get down
Come from under my shirt try to lift you off the ground
But on the other hand, I'ma keep running man
I got about a hundred coming up with three Hummers man
We stuntas man
I might stumble across a grand and give it to you wifey
And watch how she *slurp* on my pipey like a Icee
I might be in a Range that night
I might be in a Lex watching the game tonight
I got a hundred on Kobe, hope he playing it right
But if I lose, its cool, that's some change lil shite
That ain't nothing
I ain't doing nothing if I, I ain't stunting
Hold up, girl be quiet, Lil Wayne coming.

(Baby)
Slow yo roll lil one
You ain't glad its bought
And Ms. Pat and gray head over there
In the back card gambling
At the bar dranking
But go head, just be quiet with 'em lil one

(Lil Wayne)
Broads I use 'em
Hatas I bluse 'em
My whole front grill is full of confusion
Got dammit
Weezy pull up in a Porsche, expanded (expanded)
I was to the back, niggas couldn't stand it
Soon as I left the scene, the women vanished
I got it like that
Got Rolex, blue shit hard to say watches
Plus I bought all of my niggas Cartier watches
Weezy and his clique leave with forty b-e-atches
Million dolla man baby tear da beasy
Catch me sippin on some Hen, maybe Covoursier
Sammy, Mario, tody Taz, that's my posse
And what
You might see me dippin low in a Benz truck
Tell yo girl hello
I done did her, what you muggin me for
Keep playin' with me, I'll put a slug in yo do

(Mannie)
Now looky here, young blood
Pull yo pants up on yo ass and put that piece of metal up in yo shirt
Don't make me get up out this wheel chair and kick yo ass
Now keep doing what you doing
Go head

Y'all know me, young playa, stomp with the big dogs
Play with me boy I give you cancer like menthol
Cough cough cough up
Got a cat eye benz on brollas
They call us
Uptown shiners
Original hot boy$ baby, big tymers
I spit game
Get in they head, they be like, Quit Wayne!
Half hour later, I'm in they split man
Hehehehe it be kicks man
Let me get real
I'll kill on the battlefield
Steal for the scrill
I will never leave my clique nigga, I'm to trill
I'm a little peepsqueal
But I'm a ape in that jungle
And if you get it twisted,
Nigga, I'm taking yo lover
I mean I'm raping yo lover
Leave her taste in my rubber
I'm a playa nigga, I'm a playa


(Juvenile)
Ah hmmm hmmmm
Hmmmm Hmmm

(Verse 1 (Juvenile))
When I say I don't give a fuck
I mean that yeah
?? Brains is getting bust
I didn't say that yeah
If a shipment was comin' in
I need a ?? wodie
I need a sixty-forty nigga
And no chargin' that wodie
You done heard about Michael Jackson
And shiggidy shit
But you ain't never heard about me
When I'm flissin a bitch
Niggas shoulders gettin' knocked
Clean off of they head
See that red dot comin' from
Me and my girlfriend
'Cause I wants mine
I needs mine
And I'm about to get mine
At these times
Look lil' daddy
You ain't got to worry about none of these other niggas
You needs to be worried about when Juvi comin' to get ya
Look, I make a phone call to the big dog
Y'all bitches better handle y'all business before I hit y'all
Even though a nigga rich and I rock ice
I still bust a nigga head on the block aright

(Chorus 2x (Juvenile and Lil Wayne))
(Juvenile)
It's enemy turf that I'm on
So I'ma play it how it go
Cock the hollow points
And tote my black calicoe
My lil' brother Weezy

(Lil Wayne)
My big brother Juvi
Four hit the blocks
Strapped up with the Uzis

(Verse 2 (Lil Wayne))
What, What, La
Gun for gun
Eye for eye
Better move yo' wife and son
'Cause I ride or die
Cashmoney Hot Boy
Bless me when I'm gone
But until then load up the chrome 'cause it's on
I been 'bout it
Put a ??????
I drop the top and then I flip I hit his cock and make 'em flip
And I be full of that trash
I be the first one to jump out the jag bust at 'em fast
Watch the bullets chop off the head
And make 'em fall in the grass
One move they all die
Lil' Weezy small frie
Guerilla when it's war time
Y'all better learn
When this nigga shoot it'll be all hell
Well then let 'em burn
????????????????
Seven churn and I be damn if I let 'em go
If I don't get my dough
Then hell will be all blowin'
Till I R.I.P CMR I be
I put it down for all my peeps
Nigga, I'm HB for real

All I know is the streets
And how to strap up
When it's time shoot it
Cock yo' heaters
Tie up yo' bags
It's time to do it
Blaze the blunt
Shut off the lights
And cut down the music
Roll down the windows
Turn the corner
And let loose with the bbbbrrrrrr
If ya don't know now
Then ya never will learn
You ca play with Lil Wayne
And yo' block get burned
You must love to go swimmin
Cause tha water gets deeper
See I bust you wide open
And take 'ya daughter with me
Here come the beat boy
Shoot out the street lights
Time to bring on the heat boy
If you ain't really wit it
Then you better get back
I open yo' chest
And make it look just like a wet cat
This is a death trap
I'ma a guerilla and I mean it
Leave ya' head still in a beanin'
?? On the semen
Calicoe steamin'
Red dot beamin'
Dressed up suspicious
Play with lil' Weezy you'll be ?? for the vicious

Enemy Turf
Time to strap up
What


(Paparue)
Original roughnecks, hear (laughing)
Check!

Nobody burn them blocks like-a we
Nobody bust them heads like-a we
Nobody could outshine we
Tha whole CMR, CMR family

(Lil Wayne)
Look, it's little rhymecholy
Legendary like Bob Marley
17 ward superstar, feel me
I tell ya, shorty million dollar, nigga
Don't test, 'cause lil' shorty is a rider, nigga
Got my click behind me... every step of tha way
Hit your wards, with tha pump, with your chest and your face
I'm a bloodhound... I ain't lyin', I'm thugged out!
I'm from uptown... and that ain't no Beverly Hills
You wan' know what that be like? Well, curiousity kills
Send chills up my trigga finger, blast tha dummy
'Specially if it's a drought, I got ta have tha money
Take tha hit, even if it's below tha average money
Got to make it through tha week, and feed my family uppy
I'm just a lil' thug, what
Belt-buckle fall down to my cuffs, what
And police don't even matter, they can suck what
Tha price right if I catch ya slippin', nigga, what what... what

Nobody burn them blocks like-a we (nawww)
Nobody bust them heads like-a we (hmmmm)
Nobody could outshin we
Tha whole CMR, CMR family ((Baby) What!) ((Pap.) For real!)

((Baby) What! What!) Nobody burn them blocks like-a we ((Pap.) nawww)
Nobody bust them heads like-a we ((Baby) Say it, say it) ((Pap.) hmmmm)
Nobody could outshine we
Tha whole CMR, CMR family (For real!)

(Mannie Fresh)
Eeh, what, what
What, you got a (?), 'cause of tha threats that you sendin' me?
Lil' boy, I got so much money, I know who killed Kennedy
I hear you tellin' people 'bout tha people you done
But look, every time I brought me to ya, you all about fun
What made you bring a knife to a gun fight... now that's not right!
Why your bitch-ass even showed up tonight?
Nigga, we use ta kick it like Tai Bo
I don't know... what made you go sideshow, turn jive whore
Kickin', trifling, dirty, and low
We use ta split chicken... ride ta Texas and back
I drive tha rental car while you drive tha Cadillac
Shakin' like a pair of hot dice
Doin' 55, duckin' feds, law enforcement, and police
Niggas turn like fake gold... sell they soul
Treat'cha like Chicago in tha winter: ice cold!
9-karat 44's, and Calicos
Keep a clean nose
And tight Teflon bullet-proof clothes

Nobody burn them blocks like-a we ((B.G.) What? What?)
Nobody bust (Stop!) them heads like-a we (What? What?)
Nobody could (Stop!) outshine (Stop!) we (What?)
Tha whole CMR (What?), CMR (What?) family (What?) ((Pap.) Uh-huh!)

Nobody burn them blocks (Stop!) like-a we (Stop!) ((Pap.) nawww)
((B.G.) What? What?)
Nobody bust them heads (Stop!) like-a we (Stop!) ((Pap.) hmmmm)
((B.G.) What? What?)
Nobody could (Stop!) outshine (Stop!) we (What?)
Tha whole CMR (What?), CMR (Stop!) family (Stop!) ((Pap.) For real!)

(Baby)
Nigga outta line, get smoked
I don't kidd, or joke
Fuckin' with my B.G., off top I'm goin' broke
I don't play with these niggas
I get... low down and dirty
And have niggas' brains coverin' tha ground
I'm tha number-one stunter, you don't want my trouble
I'll have four niggas in your hood in my hummer
I'm from back in tha game, but ain't a damn thing change

(B.G.)
Ya get a whole thing for ten, nigga, tha price tha same

(Baby)
My money long, but it don't run with tha airport
I just bought a Hotel Cash Money Resort
Hos love my grill, hos love my crib

(B.G.)
These hos just love tha way that... Baby live

(Baby)
But I'm a thug-ass nigga, arms full of some taps
Got a Cash Money Millionaires 'cross my back
You don't want funk with me... I don't think you do, nigga

(B.G.)
We'll put ten-a-piece on your whole crew

(Baby)
What!

(Fading out begins in 4th)


Where my niggas at, it's play it raw time, baby
Load up the guns guerilla war time, baby
Light up the blunts, light up the block time, dawg
Choppers with drums, ozzee's, and glock time, dawg
Whoever he with, they better stay 'cause they to nice
And whoever and hit, jump out the window and get it right
Then we run in his house and hit the body and haul them out
Then we empty the clip and let the Lord sort 'em out
Bust it really, it ain't no stopping me 'cause I hang up to that ville
And now I'm tying on my bandanna and I'm cocking back
Jump out the Hummer and say lil' shorty wear your stocking cap
Dawg we got automatics, two shooters, six shots, and 50 round drums
Hit your daddy, you Suki, you son, your wife and move your momma
'Cause I'm off the wall, off the hook, off the chain
Got a sawd oil tec and I'm bout to knock off your brain
Tell 'em

Come on, nigga Come on, time to do it nigga
Nigga come on, nigga come on Wodie!
Come on, nigga come on, time to do it nigga
Nigga come on, nigga come on Wodie!

(Verse 2: (B.G.))
If drama come to me then it come
For that I got two glocks and a k with a drum
That's what I ride with not what I got got ducked off
The mac, sweeper, the six shot, pump that sawd off
I got the tillery when beef kick
I got soldiers ready to march when that beef start
I got niggaz be in that zone on that herion
I got niggaz ready to kill when shit get real
I got niggaz that play all out akirts of the field
So get caught up in that place and your brain get spilled
Oh it's a game but it's a game of life or death
You lose and can't continue if you get dome checked
You get blues it's all what duck gonna be next
Come in that water and get wet
Think you can fuck with me, you thoughts will get upset
I don't shot to hit I shot to kill
Believe me I don't shoot for fun when I shoot it's for real
Come on nigga!

Come on, nigga come on, time to do it nigga
Nigga come on, nigga come on Wodie!
Come on, nigga come on, time to do it nigga
Nigga come on, nigga come on Wodie!

Give me the guns, I'm ready to bust one nigga
My nuts hung nigga, since I was young nigga
I get dumb nigga, with the M-1 nigga
I sip some nigga, and I flip some nigga
A uptown stunter, what the hell you think
Ready for war, BUT I AIN"T NO CAPTAIN OF NO GOT DAMN TANK!
And you can take that to vegillity boy
I'm burning up, I'm on fire is you smelling boy
'Cause I be coming with the top down
Letting them know how the chop sound
100 rounds tore the whole entire block down
Assault rifle with a drum and beam totter
38 with a speed loader in my holster
Mac ozze achine with a strap around my shoulder
But if I pop my trunk I'm might just set off a damn explosure
I'm off the wall, off the hook, off the chain
Got a sawd oil tec and I'm bout to knock off your brain
Tell 'em

You ain't gotta hollar wodie, here I come nigga! (x2)


Look, where I go from here?
Just lost my father last year
But I still, remain to keep it real like dollar bills
I drop tears, can't believe my daddy's gone
Rather come home, why ya left us all alone?
But I'm comin' man
Just wait at the gates, I'ma be runnin' man
Arms open, eyes wide, full a love
You watched me come up from a scrub
Now ya see ya son ridin' everyday on dubs
But I wish, I could share them times wit' you
It got me pissed, this family and my momma, too
But please brah, won't ya come back for Lil Wayne
And see ???, Mrs. Roe, Sheryl, Kemp and plus Sinetra
Dawg, we really miss ya
And it ain't all that cool livin' off pictures
Ah man, visit while I'm sleep, write a note or call me
Can't believe you left me to be a small man
But I know it wasn't meant to be
That's why I suck up all the game that you sent to me

It's up to you, Wayne, nigga, stay up and keep it real
It's all on you, man, my nigga, I know how you feel
Just be strong, 'cause everythang gon' be all right
I know it's hard tryna make but it's gon' be all right

All right I know it, see I got a child
I know I'm young, but when you left dawg, thangs got wild
I know you probably sayin' 'damn, you raisin children now?'
But it's all gravy I'm with Baby makin' millions now
So I still smile
I'm takin' care ya wife brah
Ain't nothin' changed, if I still come home late at night she fuss
But it's still the ol' same ol', same ol'
Thangs go, up and down like rainbows, we maintain though
So you know who payin' the bills now, ah hah
Still flossin, give my audience the chills, ah hah
I got all my game from you, man I ain't gon' lie
But I'm still thuggin' nigga, playa you think I ain't gon' ride?
But Slim and B done slowed me done and brought the talent out me
Yeah Slim and B done showed me 'round, all a the Jags around me
And I ain't goin' no where, that nigga stuck wit' me
And make you and my people happy, man it's up to me

I know you know I'm thinkin' 'bout ya, you be on my mind
I know ya see me every time watchin the boys shine
And I know that ya see I put out my own CD
And picture this, your little boy even on TV
But I swear it's off the heezy, Weezy
Say it's cool, you can believe me, I like how they treat me
I'm doin' what ya say, don't let a nigga try me
And I don't let a fine, pretty broad get by me
Don't let nothin' pull me off track from my hobby
Oh yeah, and I don't leave my room sloppy
But the same thang make ya laugh, make ya cry
And everybody that ya love it's like they have to die
I pray to the Lord everyday and ask him why
And ask him to bless your soul every time I pass by
I know he doin' it, and leavin' all the love to me
And I'ma prove it, and show ya daddy it's up to me

I mean it's up to me man
Just watch over me
And it's gon' be all gravy man
Leavin' big, treatin me all good
Everythang else be all good
Rest in peace ya heard me
I'll be there


(Lil Wayne)
Aw aw
Aw aw!
Aw aw!
Peep me out, look!
Head bustin', black fatigues
So blunted, 400 degreez, it's sweet
Nigga, respect me
When you see tha left hand buggin', nigga, respect it
But if you see tha left hand bustin', nigga, your disrespectin'
Took one to tha chest, I never die, I'm tha same brotha
Jump out and shoot K's, let 'em fly, I'm tha same brotha
It's a must they recognize that I'm untamed, brotha
Disconnect a boy like a damn change number
Uh, hang up and try again
I kill ya, wake ya up, and make you die again
Spark it up, and make a nigga block fry again
Go ta jail, and do life, not five ta ten
Me, Lil' Mario, and Toolie, that's my man, fam
My niggas don't give a Jean-Claude VanDamme
About'chu, 'cause we don't play around
Bring tha K around, spray tha town, take tha ground
Take tha ground that you walk on
Tap tha phones that you talk on
Jam ya up and take your arms off
I hit you twice with tha sawed-off
And your nigga just watch your head fall off... fall off
You think ya love me, I shoot anybody that look suspicious (what)
I bust tha three-six until tha damn drum bust (what)
I hit tha hood, (I hit tha hood) be up in all black, (be in all black)
Numb-nut
I run up in your house with a tommy gun, what
I'm standin' there like all mine
Run through your click like a weak defensive line
Doggy fresh

(Turk)
You want war, nigga, let's beef... beef
We can do it how ya want, or take it to tha streets... streets
I'll be dressed in camouflage, Ree's on my feet
Through your air (through your air) leave ya burnin' like heat
What ya... know, I'm tha one from tha T.C.
Chopper shooter, block bruiser, I'll bet any G (any G)
On fire, nigga, label, that's a HB
And if I can't kill you... killin' your family (family)
Think it's a game, 'rilla, test my nuts, you'll see
How fast I send shots through your 6V (6V)
Heads bust if ya really think it's CMB
And I know you all know about Slim and B
We get our ball on, nigga, drink Cristy
Me and Buck get head from meekos in Tennessee
Betta ask somebody, nigga, I been a G
And the Baby still servin' niggas for ten a key... nigga

(Lil Wayne)
Aw, aw, aw, look
Call me big baller, Big Tymer, big pockets
Call me big stunter, big stick, or big body
Call me that lil' nigga with tha Role... fulla diamonds
Call me tha number one Hot Boy on fire
Fire, when you shoot outta town, then I'ma holler
With a crate of Crystile, couple of blunts, and a condom
Let him know if (let him know if) he down bad, that ain't my problem
Ler him know if he come at me bad, then I'ma chop him
Ch-uh... chop him
Put tha flame to him
All of a sudden tha thing hits straight through him
'Cause I'm tha same nigga, pimper boy, Lil Wayne
Thugged out, pants fall to my shoe strings
But since I use ta be... doin' tha best at thangs
That mean I gotta wear a vest that day
I really think them niggas jealous... of tha sparkle in my necklace
He ain't ready... he ain't ready


It was the summer of 2001
And I saw the whole fuckin' thing
Yo! Can I say fuck on TV?
These guys had on some squad, shit!
It was Lil Wayne, two puppies, one child, and a dike
But not just any dike, Dick Van Dike
Hey, can I give a few shoutouts to my people?
Yo mom! Yo dad! What's up? Cool! I'm on TV!
Hey, I been tellin' them guys to get off the corner!
(I mean y'all know I'm good for...)


The block is hot, the cops is swarmin a neighborhood heavy
While niggas off in the neighborhood sellin, with penitentiary chances
The dope roped up in the cup of their pants
Fiends flock like ??? come get this candy
I got heroin in bundles, them Highland O's
Plus a cooked slab, chopped up, dimes is swoll
If I spot the laws comin', hey its time to roll
Candy Carter got a line of parole, Outta control
The first fell a Tuesday this month oh sweet thang
Plus it's a sweet day, me next score for three days
One time they say what you mean, I gets the green
Break up the block like Maurice Green, ya feel me?
In my predicament I'm guilty until proven innocent
Hustle ridiculous, I'm tryin' to get this dope continuos
Ball till I fall, one thing, I ain't tryin' to fall
Want everybody numb like ambasol
But he heard

Uh oh
There go them fuckin' po-po's
And if you know like I know
You better get off the corner

I'm a young dog, wild and ecstatic, violent when passin
Hem gangstas doin' time in a parishment, role models
And keep ya cup, we drink whole bottles, and cuss at niggas
Like fuck that nigga, I let my pump subtract niggas
You beef with me I guarantee your mams be missin'
With a note behind demandin three chickens or she gets it
Do not twist because lil man is trippin'
They could have ya body in three different places
Ain't nothin' gravy, but save it
'Cause I'm a ride and hit the nigga street
Weezy go to war like Sadaam and Clinton disagree
While I'm shitty from the weed
Like were them bustas be
I promise ya never fuckin' sleep, I clear the set
Come outside late at night to your surprise I'm here with Tecks
Two shots knock off the niggas necks, it's so realistic
So I hope ya get it, or else them shots poke ya fetti
Be on the block until them souljas hit it
That's when he heard...

Blocka
Me come to tear your block up
If you don't want no problems
You better get off the corner

All right, I cook it, cut it, ship and move it
I make a livin' in this crooked public distributin
Just take a peek around, the hood is floodin, shit is boomin
The hottest D in town lookin' for me hit me Tuesday, like after six
See I crack the bricks right down to Z's
Got pounds of trees, my blocks blazin' qp's to ki's
Gangin' in the cheese, them bricks is comin'
No droughts I don't sit on nothin'
I don't believe I'm frontin
If I give you a dime, I leave with somethin'
The big dog, Nigga I got the city under siege
And the law don't bother me, I give the pigs a couple of G's
Shit, I hustle strong to push this work through the streets
I'm tryin' to deal with every nigga, and sell the birds up cheap
I'm greedy, if there's any money bein made from drugs I need it
Twenty bricks two weeks completed, you can't beat it
Whatever you want, holla at me when you need to get it
Does anybody else, I'll pay 'em a visit
That's when ya heard...

Come here peeps
I'm hearin that you run these streets
You don't want beef
Then get off the corner

(Chorus 1,2,3,3 repeat 2x)

Uh oh, you better get off the corner, skirt
Blocka, you better get off the corner
Come here, you better get off the corner
Get off the corner, Get off the corner
What, uh oh, get off the corner
What, uh oh, you better off the corner
What, uh oh, you better off the corner
What, uh oh, you better off the corner
Like dat, Get off the corner


(Lil Wayne)
Whaaat
You can find me on the corner with stones, quarters and zones
Or dope and powder broke, and our sale's soap and flour
And most of our customers come up to us daily
Yet and still I cut this stuff crazy - a hustler, baby
What can I give you? I distribute ki's to the kings
And z's to the fiends, and ecstasy and weed to the teens
You need to see Wheez - anything you like and I have 'em
From crack to Viagra, and Vicadins valiums
I'm the nigga they point to when you hit my av
So get all your money together, come and get my slabs
I get my cash, put some aside, and flip like half
And still enough for me to TV and deep-dish my Nav'
And you can tell the law that I say they can kiss my acid
For the white people,
When I get two bricks for ten, I know the right people
And I keep a nine on my waistline
And I'ma be right on the corner, wodie - I'm gonna grind

(Hook (Lil Wayne))
I tell 'em, "Whaaat!"
You see me hustlin' on the block all the time
Sittin' at the table, breakin' ki's down to dimes
Sooner or later this neighborhood gon' be mine
Nigga, I'm tryin' to grind

I tell 'em, "Whaaat!"
You see me hustlin' on the block all the time
Sittin' at the table, breakin' ki's down to dimes
Sooner or later this neighborhood gon' be mine
Nigga, I'm on the grind

(Lil Wayne)
Nigga, y'all gon' respect Wheezy, or else the tec squeezin' shots
I have your chest steamin' hot, and your sis' screamin', "Stop!"
I hang out on the block, nigga, with rocks and weed
On the corner till the mornin', see the cops and flee
And if we beef, we don't beef long 'cause we gon' creep all night
So I hope you don't sleep all night - we on your street all night
Say, aw aw, I don't want your boy to get me shoes
'Cause I spit tools, and put him tissues in his shoes
And the bricks move every followin' week
So if you need to get it, too, then holla at me - got powder or d
And I shower your streets until your av pass out
More bricks than "The Three Lil Pigs'" last damn house
Stack crack and lay back, and just laugh at droughts
And issue work for half and just grab that south
For real, nigga - Wheezy Whee tryin' to shine
From daybreak to nightfall I'm gon' grind

(Hook (Lil Wayne))
Tell 'em, "Whaaat!"
You see me hustlin' on the block all the time
Sittin' at the table, breakin' ki's down to dimes
Sooner or later this neighborhood gon' be mine
Nigga, I'm on the grind

I tell 'em, "Whaaat!"
You see me hustlin' on the block all the time
Sittin' at the table, breakin' ki's down to dimes
Sooner or later this neighborhood gon' be mine
Nigga, I'm on the grind

(Lil Wayne)
Start from grams to ounces to quarters to halves to ki's
Takes seconds to minutes to hours to days and to weeks
Gotta grind, work, hustle, struggle, and get it
Gotta buy, cook it, cut it, sell it, and flip it
And I flight everyday and night from the corner to the avenue
And I'll sleep next week, man, I got yay, dope, and crack to move
Ask them dudes when Wheezy open shop, I ain't got a bag to lose
Especially if I don't like who sent 'em to me and I'ma tax a dude
Duck the Feds and drama like I duck my baby momma
Sometimes I play it sour - what you thought was yay was flour
I pull whatever for the cheddar - nigga gotta flash and floss
Drought come around, then it's jack the cost or jack the boss
Cock the gun, then I push rocks till I spot the sun
All day I hung the block, I see the cops and run
I'm tryin' to get rich 'cause I wan' shine
You can find me on the block, nigga, all the time

(Hook-4x (Lil Wayne))
I tell 'em, "Whaaat!"
You see me hustlin' on the block all the time
Sittin' at the table, breakin' ki's down to dimes
Sooner or later this neighborhood gon' be mine
Nigga, I'm on the grind

(Lil Wayne)
Look,
Whaaaaaa


(Turk)
Come on, come on
Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on
I roll with a bunch of untamed guerrillas, head bustas, and sharks
Niggas that's 'bout beefin' - lettin' them K's spark
Knockin'-it-off-your-shoulder soldiers - them real niggas
Niggas who did time - hard-to-kill niggas
How you live, you get it is the way a nigga play it
Niggas ain't fightin' no more - niggas bustin' your head
Sendin' you to your grave - it's do or die, cousin
Aimin' straight for your head, makin' sure you die, cousin
They dressin' in black, prepared for combat
Ridin' four deep strapped with choppers and macks
Not givin' a fuck, gettin' your cut, lettin' it bust
You get hit, that's on you, my nigga - you're outta luck
You're stuck like chuck - wodie, you're assed out
That's what happen to ya tryin' to be hard, runnin' your mouth
Get erased, my nigga (my nigga)
Look here: I leave no trace, my nigga (my nigga)
No witnesses so can you see my face, my nigga (my nigga)
Fled the scene - so you have no case, my nigga- -case, my nigga
Look here: you can play if you wanna get down
Get your stupid ass left where you can't be found

(Hook (B.G.))
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
We done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
We done popped you up, chopped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
We done popped you up, chopped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Whaa?)
We done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up

(Juvenile)
I was wrong for a lot of shit that I'ma take to my grave
Continuously whippin' niggas like a runaway slave
Must was meant for me to be thuggin' - I stay in some beef
Baby and Slim keep tellin' me, "Juvenile, stay off them streets."
I can't help - I draw attention; they be fuckin' with me
I'm hot in the ass and can't get enough of these streets
A lil' nigga in the Rolls screamin', "Fuck the police!"
Peelin' out in front the club, about to duck to the east
Now play yourself, you gon' find yourself by yourself
In a nice place ducked off with fucked up health
I done been strucked and snuck, but never fucked and stuck
My life is four hundred degrees, so I bust 'em up
Still stickin' to the g-code, Ree's, and B's
Quit drinkin', but I will smoke some weed indeed
All they understand is my project English
And if you don't like it, you can kiss my penis

(Hook-4x (B.G.))
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
We done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)

(B.G.)
I run the streets 'cause I'm real if it's daylight or dark
You a killer, nigga? (Eah?) Ain't no fear in my heart
I'll go toe to toe with ya or take ya to war
I'll even go K for K with ya - now make your choice
Better know when I'm in beef that I be creepin', nigga
Better know that I'm a snake, and I'ma sneak ya, nigga
Each time I hit the corner, I be leavin' niggas
Momma upset - can't even go on and grievin', nigga
Nothin' change - I'm on TV, I don't play with you niggas
Still the same that'll spin broad day on you niggas
And empty a hundred out that K
Where you're caught hangin' is where you're left stankin', ya heard me
I've been in the game - niggas know what I'm 'bout
So many murders under my belt, I done lost count
If you wanna be another number, my nigga
Go ahead, drop your nuts, and run up, my nigga

(Hook (B.G.))
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
We done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Nigga, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
And we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Look, we done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Whaa?)
Look, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)

(Lil Wayne)
Hello, world
I zip through fast in a yellow pearl drop Porsche Boxter
Young mobster, wild and obnoxious
Pop some in your dreadlocks - What? Me not no rookie, boy
Glock cookin', boy
I'll turn your forehead to a pussy, boy
Off the gate, cousin, you niggas gon' make me stalk and spray somethin'
Spark or lace somethin'
Park the car, get out, walk, and spray somethin'
Taught to stay thuggin' brought up in this shit that we call America
And in my hood the laws are scared of us - we are too terrible
If I live to be old, it's a miracle
'Cause the way a nigga hatin' or bitch plottin', the shit's hysterical
That's why I keep me two big guns on blast like a stereo
Come to your burial and kill anybody else who care for you
Don't blame me, society changed me
You haul white, you smash powder all night for the fast dollar
Cut off lights, we masked riders
The hood trash got us in a position we can't shake
With boys we can't break, and due to that you ain't safe, bitch

(Hook (B.G.))
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Look, we done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up, nigga (Ooh!)
(Did you see that?)
We hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
And we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
(Did you see that?)
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Boy, look,
We done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Now, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)
Look, we done hit you up, lit you up, twist you up (Ooh!)
Look, we done chopped you up, popped you up, boxed you up (Ooh!)

(B.G. (talking))
Nigga - we put holes in you bitch-ass niggas, ya heard me
We don't barrow nothin', don't fear nothin'
And ain't nothin' you can do 'bout these (Hot! Hot! Hot!) Boy$, nigga
Let 'em burn, nigga
Let 'em burn, nigga
B.Geezy, Lil Wheezy, Juvy, Two Tymer


(Talking)
I know, I know, Weezy Wee, this dedicated to my father
Rabbit nigga, y'all excuse the expressions

What it be like up there baby boy, ay this here ya son hollerin at ya
I miss the shit out ya, it's hard to be without ya
But I know you watchin, peepin down on how I'm livin'
Ay, tell Jesus I said thanks for the blessings he sendin
Please ask him to forgive me for the sins I commit
Just let him know I'm still young and at risk
Say, I'll never forget the time that you caught me smokin' herb in the house
I was dead wrong, I deserved to get out
But you just talked it over with my mom and got it situated in due time
Told me get the paper instead of high
So now I take that advice and shed light over my whole life dog
I wanted to be just like you my whole life dog
I can't believe them niggas stole ya, that shit's pain to me
But don't trip, I hold you down, you still remain through me
And dog I know I can't see you but I bet that you smilin'
And I'm a make you even happier, I promise

I know you can't be close to my nigga, I know
But I know you watchin over me nigga, I know
But the shit's steady hurtin', burn deep
But it's all right dog, everything gon' be all right dog

I know you see my daughter growin' up and bad as ever
But she cool 'cause she do whatever daddy tell her
And your wife, she's still the most wonderful woman
I just built her a new house, she ain't runnin' from nothin'
B and Slim, them niggas still love me like they own child
Ms. Rose nerves get bad, but still she gon' smile
And me I'm on some "squash it" and some debate it
But I know they love it way more than they hate it
And I know you probably laughin' at the way I treat these hoes and these
Bitches
I try love 'em, my BM be trippin'
But Rabbit, you know one thing, I got the game from you, every perspective
That's why I keep the gun at close connection for protection
And you see I left school behind and chose CMB
It was impossible on the road every week, but I know enough
And I follow by everything you ever told me, think wisely
Watch over me my nigga, just guide me

I swear to you man, at some times I really wish I was with you
'Cause I get fed up with this life and I miss you
Somebody pass me a tissue, and let me wipe the tears from my eyes
Yeah, nigga I cried, it's 'cause I loved you dog
I promise I won't ever put nothin' above you dog
So I live my life in dedication of you dog
I know you see me happy on the outside and hurt within
Make me wanna grab that gun and burst again
But I know they got a reason why I'm here
And I know they got a reason why you gone
And therefore, I'm succeedin on my own
But you ain't never left me, nigga, you still dwell in my heart
I can't forget you kept it real from the start
And until my last breath I exhale, I'm a keep you with me
And when we do meet again, I'm a keep you with me
And tell them niggas Pac, B.I.G. and Pun I said "thay's my peoples"
Watch over me nigga till I see you

(Wayne talking)
I know I can't be close to you (dog)
I know you watching over me dog
But the shit's that it hurt and burn deep
Its all right dog, everything gon' be all right dog
Rabid, nigga, it's your son
I'm down in your hole and your down
You see Cita strait, mom strait
Your mom strait, I mean Everything going right
Me and Slim nigga, is the realist niggas I ever met dog
And plus now I'm on some Squad Shit
My niggas, they keep it real with me
I keep it real with them
My little girl growning beutiful as ever man
You need to see her dog, she bad though man
Anyway dog, aiight holla!


(Lil Wayne)
Let's go - let's go
Let's go - let's go
They can't fuck with me now
Huh? Fuck with me now
No, they can't fuck with me now
Can't fuck with me now
Let's go

(VERSE 1 - Lil Wayne)
I go by "Wheezy: the Don"
Magnificent nigga, lot of ice around my neck, and freezin' the arm
And if a nigga decide to test, their chest get completely took off
And if you wonder who the fuck (?)
(?) We so sip
It's like ain't nothin' but we gotta squab
On the block everyday sellin' rocks and shit
Choppin' bricks - give the damn cops a dick
We cop a whip and drop a brick - that's how we do it
Weed, liquor, money, and guns how we do it
Freak bitch to swallow cum like fluid
Who it be? Through his feet, Dubbs
Ain't nothin' sweet 'cause I can't keep trust
Lil' nigga - worth well over a mill, nigga
Real nigga - come around and show up where you live, nigga
Pullin' out the K's, nigga - (??) and all
Wayne 'bout to damage your home
Nigga 'bout to go to see the man in the stars
Hoppin' out the van with bandanas and all
Cannons went off
News cameras takin' pictures of your family when your avenue's gone
Damn, it's a shame how the bullets slammed in your brain
How the ice slammed the pain, rammin' your dame
That's because she ran into the game
Nigga, stop playin' with Lil Wayne
Come on!

(Hook) (Lil Wayne)
It ain't a game, nigga - I don't know who told you it was
I put holes in your mug if you're holdin' a grudge
Try to take 'em when you get the gun and load
And the slug check ya low when I bust
Come to show you no love
Uh, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
No! They can't fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Stop playin' when ya get it understood
'Cause I know if you know what's good for ya
Come around your hood for ya
You don't know me - I kill everyone who show love
You have them motherfuckers lookin' all up in the woods for ya

(VERSE 2 - Lil Wayne)
Iceberg Shorty - (??) pants is saggin', forty magnum
Comin' out the club on Bacardi's, staggerin'
Ten in the Ferrari wagon, braggin'
Oh, what's happenin'?
(??) 'Round the court 'cause some ex just looked at me
Runnin' with them cats that be clappin' the plastic
Nigga put a cap in your asses
Catch me on the av with the crack and a 'matic
Hopin' that the law don't pass me - stash it
First of the month, just snatched me a package
Bag it - 'bout to get this motherfucker crackin'
If a nigga think about jackin', please believe
I be clip-slappin', click-clackin'
Pull the bitch back and run up on his parents
Kidnap for his snacks, and then whack him
Shit get drastic
That's why I try to stay as fars away from beef as I could
Grab me a freak to ease on my wood
Transport coke from each of my hoods
Wheezy Whee - CMB's in my blood
In the streets seventeen's where I'm from
And I ain't got no feelins for none of these womens
Really, though, fetticheese is my love
You know the streets made me
And I don't give a damn if you hate me
Nigga better be S-Q-A-D
Until the bigger man do take me
Squad shit!
You don't want no violence to keep the quiet
We call my people wild, and then we beef in quiet
Or we'll creep in houses, we'll sweep your momma
So, please stay out it, or you leave in silence
Come on! What!

(Hook) (Lil Wayne)
It ain't a game, nigga - I don't know who told you it was
I put holes in your mug if you're holdin' a grudge
Try to take 'em when you get the gun and load
And the slug check ya low when I bust
Come to show you no love
Uh, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Uh, they can't fuck with me now, them can't fuck with me now
Stop playin' when ya get it understood
'Cause I know if you know what's good for ya
Come around your hood for ya
You don't know me - I kill everyone who show love
You have them motherfuckers lookin' all up in the woods for ya
Uh, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Uh, they can't fuck with me now - them can't fuck with me now
Come on!

(VERSE 3 - Lil Wayne)
It's too dark for ya's
I ain't got no love for ya's
Let gunshots smoked ya's
Who fuck with us?
Weed, liquor done corrupted us
Wet a nigga like umbrellas
Take the woman out a man; stomach out a man
Pump and bust, the guts comin' out a man
Runnin' out the Hummer with guns in each palm
If the motherfucker sleep, call him come get it
Niggas be kiddin' - me awake, deal away
Gun-spray - bullets damn near took off your son face
Oh, shit - niggas on that whole shit
Fours spit so quick like that lil' nigga ain't got no sense
Slow this shit down - let me get back down to reality:
I cause fatalities for any technicality
Wipe off your family randomly - ya understand?
It ain't no motherfuckin' game, and I ain't fuckin' playin'
Come on!

(Hook) (Lil Wayne)
It ain't a game, nigga - I don't know who told you it was
I put holes in your mug if you're holdin' a grudge
Try to take 'em when you get the gun and load
And the slug check ya low when I bust
Come to show you no love
Ah, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Uh, they can't fuck with me now - them can't fuck with me now
Stop playin' when ya get it understood
'Cause I know if you know what's good for ya
Come around your hood for ya
You don't know me - I kill everyone who show love
You have them motherfuckers lookin' all up in the woods for ya
Ah, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Them can't fuck with me now - ah, they can't fuck with me now
Look-
It ain't a game, nigga - I don't know who told you it was
I put holes in your mug if you're holdin' a grudge
Try to take 'em when you get the gun and load
And the slug check ya low when I bust
Come to show you no love
Ah, fuck with me now - them can't fuck with me now
They can't fuck with me now - them can't fuck with me now
Stop playin' when ya get it understood
'Cause I know if you know what's good for ya
Come around your hood for ya
You don't know me - I kill everyone who show love
You have them motherfuckers lookin' all up in the woods for ya
Ah, fuck with me now - they can't fuck with me now
Them can't fuck with me now - no, they can't fuck with me now

(Lil Wayne)
Can't fuck with me now - it's not a game, nigga
Can't fuck with me now - it's not a game, nigga
Wha, wha, uh, uh, nigga!
Wheezy Whee! (Whee! Whee! Whee!)
Watch out! (Watch out!)


(Lil Wayne talking)
Fuck, Man I been on this block all day
Hot ??? my shirt, Hot
Boy that look like Baby
That ain't Baby
That is that nigga
Let's go

(Baby)
Say Lil One
(Lil Wayne)
One What's happenin' with you big dog
(Baby)
Look I need to talk bout some serious shit
(Lil Wayne)
Like what?, Look I ain't have nothin' to do with killin'
(Baby)
Slow down, I'm talking bout some get money shit an how it's gonna go down
(Lil Wayne)
Well holla at me nigga, Talk to me, Let me know somethin'
Cause right now I'm tired of husltin, And these rocks ain't doin' nothin'
And to tell you the truth I feel like I be out here for the fun of it
I swear if I don't hit a lick by next month I'm done with it
(Baby)
I understand, But you ain't listenin' you just talkin'
I said I could get you paid, Is you with that offer?
I know you see me comin' thruogh everyday pimpin'
In a Benz, the Jag, and a Ferari
(Lil Wayne)
Yeah, But I like that Bentely
(Baby)
All that's cool shorty, You can get this if you with me
Let me run it down to ya bout this shipment I'm gettin' in
(Lil Wayne)
I mean I'm sayin' it sound good, I like that
(Baby)
What that's a blunt?
(Lil Wayne)
Yeah
(Baby)
Light that, Nigga I'll be right back
(Lil Wayne)
Aight cat, Don't be playin', This worth my while?
(Baby)
Lil daddy I play with hoes, Is you a hoe?
(Lil Wayne)
Nah
(Baby)
Say I got work, I need to flood it all over
I can't do it all myself, So I need me a Lil solider
I been peepin' ya Lil ass, I see you grindin' an shit
(Lil Wayne)
I been peepin' you to, Nigga I see you shinin' an shit
An you don't even know how long I been tryin' to find me a brick
To make it flip and take the chips and go an buy me a whip
(Baby)
Fuck a whip, That could wait
You worry bout your cake
Once you make enough to play
Go buy a Z-28
(Lil Wayne)
A Z-28
Boy go head, Once I get change
I'mma go an cop me a Range or two platinum chains
(Baby)
Well look I ain't fuckin' with ya
You to young from the start
(Lil Wayne)
Man that ain't even got anythnig to do with it
Its dedication and heart
(Baby)
Dedication and smarts
Don't put your heart in this game
'Cause when you fall to deep in love you get caught in this game
(Lil Wayne)
Well correct me when I'm worng
And acknowlegde me when I'm right
(Baby)
Lil bitch, If ya hard head ass listen I might
(Lil Wayne)
B I'm all ears
(Baby)
Get yo ass in this car
(Lil Wayne)
Unlock the door
(Baby)
Its unlocked
(Lil Wayne)
Don't holla at me
You ain't my pa
(Baby)
Now stop playin', Look I got a hundred bricks just came
50 ki's of raw dope, and 50 bricks of cocaine
Pays 5 a piece
(Lil Wayne)
Every week
(Baby)
Just move it together
I'mma knock off my Lil section
You take care of ya area
(Lil Wayne)
Ughhh, Nigga I been waitin' to be the Don round here
I'mma have Coke and Dope
Its gone be on round here
But how you want me to sell this
Zones, Quaters, Halfs, Ki's
(Baby)
However they ask for it, Just give it to them Lil Weezy
(Lil Wayne)
I'm all for it cousin
I'mma get me a million
If power get between it I'mma split me a nigga
(Baby)
You better, But when I get you this shit nigga
Let them have it
I bet you be on the block workin', Directin' traffic
(Lil Wayne)
Like you park here, You park there, You meet me in the cuts
(Baby)
Say Lil One
(Lil Wayne)
Wassup?
(Baby)
We gone fuck it up
(Lil Wayne)
Nigga what?
Nigga what?


(Lil Wayne talking)
We have them bitches like it was unplugged
Its Weezy Wee, Mannie Fresh, and Unplugged
We have them bitches like it was unplugged
Weezy, Fresh, and Unplugged

(Lil Wayne)
Give me a big fine bitch in a dress
One put them lips in effect
Suck the dick till the shit in her chest
You can piss on her brest
I like that shit
Project hoes like that dick, Don't bite that dick
Give me a Spanish sweet hoe
Black from Puerto Rico
Freak ho, Specialize in givin' me deep throat
Really don't care how short how plump, short or thick
Give me head, Don't care, Swallow cum don't spit
Aww shit, I like them Jamicians and them Hatians
Niggas can't take it when they shake an make me rape 'em
White girl's I video tape 'em and they enjoy it
They love it when everybody saw it
Its off tha chain
High yellow Mexican bitches they all for brain
But watch them hoes who want the change
It's not a game
Or short cuban hoe, With a fat ass though
An I'll keep the bitch just like Fidel Castro

(UnPlugged)
Tell me what you like
Let me tell you what I like
You goin' on an breakin' me off by the end of the night
You can ride with me
'Cause I like ya Simmon's jeans
Ain't tryin' to make a love scene
Truly I just want you to break me off

(Lil Wanye)
Weezy the hottest
Drinkin' Barcadi
I stream through the scene on a Lincon on Robbers
Lookin' for the finest dime, To wine and dine
Later on I'm tryin' to climb behind ya spine
Hold up lil mama, Slow ya ass down
Pick it up, Throw ya ass down
Now throw ya ass around
An scream me name
I can't hear you say it louder what (Wayne, Wayne)
A damn shame
Better watch that boy he nasty
I strap on a plastic
Break ya off like elastic
Put the dick in the middle, Make it wiggle for y'all
Might be small, But that dick ain't little at all
I like a short thick broad, Fat ass an shit
Like Taso flip like Trina The Baddest Bitch
Matter of fact when I see her, Pull her Over like a cop
Juve coulda Backed It Up an I woulda Dropped It Like Its Hot
Ha Ha, Ya heard me
Ha Ha, Unplugged

(Mannie Fresh)
I like them big, round, yellow and brown
A bitch that take it from the back and make the (Ugh Ugh) sound
Now you can bounce, slide, drop, giddy up, giddy up
Now you can ride till you feel it hit a nut, hit a nut
Bounce for ya hood, Shake for ya baby daddy
Twerk for that nigga who got you pregnant in the Caddy
Slide with the KY, Hold up ???
My bitch got thong, You bitch got drawls
My chick like to swallow, Yo chick like to spit
If yo chick was my chick I'd still love that bitch
Hold up, Chill out, Wait a minute stop
My Ginseng, Viagra, and a Strawberry pop
See I'm feelin' kinda bold, Why don't ya bring a friend
From vigina to the asshole do it again
I want a yucky down misses bout whatever
Yo mama loved a Tymer, Now you welcome
You ok Lil mama and I love that chick
But deep down inside I just love me dick


You have now reached the end of side A it is time to turn over wait turnover
Get a fuckin' CD asshole so bring your ass down to fuckin' sound advice buy a
Fuckin' CD player go to fuckin' sam goody buy the fuckin' CD stop copying shit on
Tapes you fuckin' loser and play the shit right and if you ain't feelin' it your
Fucked up your deaf so the shit better rattle your fuckin' trunk better make
Your fuckin' ear drums bleed better make the neighbors go wow what the fuck is
That what's so loud is there another party at the house no its fuckin' Lil Waynes
Album rockin' this shit motherfucker


(Lil Wayne)
Look look look - don't play with me
Look look look
Huh? Huh? Look
Let's get the pistols out the trunk, let's get ready to bust things
Leave a nigga block full of nothin' but guts, brains
Ain't no way, nowhere that these niggas could duck flames
My guns up for and tellin' all to suck Wayne
I'm runnin' with a clique that just be thuggin' heavy
Plus I'm runnin' in them bricks, cook it, cut it, sell it
One time for my daddy, Rabbit, up in Heaven
Ever since my nigga died I've been strapped up and ready
Come and get it - it's Wheezy Whee, the hottest ever
Now this fella gon' get bullets inside his sweater
I'm just terror, or better yet, horror or drama
And tomorrow I'ma hit the block and barrow your momma
Beef with me, you're swimmin' in water with sharks and piranhas
Revolvers and choppers got all your partners callin' the coppers
And for the grand finale, I might pull up in a tan Denali
When I hop out, in my hand is a Calico sprayin' your family

(Hook (Lil Wayne))
Don't play with me - I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
You bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
And I pop my gun
Better hide and run

(Lil Wayne)
What is this that done got me in your district? Twist it
Now everybody got dots on they heads like Egyptians
I'm tipsy - I've been sippin' on that Hennessy, people
Then it get deeper, I start shootin' up innocent people
Seventeen creeper is who I - what I - be, dog
The clip slide in the four-five, then it blow five
In heat, dog? It's your life or me, dog
On four tires, or feet, dog
I still be on the block sweepin'
Nobody is not sleepin'
Got me in all black with a gun in a palm
Run in his home, start shootin', hit his son in the dome
Dummy, it's on - ain't gon' be no relaxin' and stuff
'Cause when I come through mashin' the truck, I'm blastin' a pump
And passin' a blunt - me circle once to see if he dead
Gotta be sure cause niggas promised me a ki if he dead
But, dog, you get it raw if you are with the kid
I'll push your baby momma car off the bridge
Huh?!

(Hook (Lil Wayne))
Bet' not play with me 'cause I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

(Lil Wayne)
You might catch me with bandanas and strapped T
On the back street of your block in the back seat
I'ma cap three at the first coward I up and see
I'ma bust the piece and knock his body a couple of feet
When I rush your front door, you get a few to your stomach
Hope they dress you up nice because your funeral Sunday
Nigga shouldn't've played tough - wouldn't've got his head bust
Now your whole livin' room is full of pink and red stuff
Now you're gatted up, full of that vodka and weed added up
Fresh platted up, your T-shirt all tatted up
Crack in the tongue of my kicks
Plus I got a gun on my hip, and I'm runnin' the strip
I know you see me: Little Wheezy killaholeezy
A hundred rounds from the chopper leave 'em real sleepy
You know how we be smellin' weedy up in our clothes
Cutthroatin', connivin' killers, but that's all I know
Huh? Huh? Huh?

(Hook (Lil Wayne))
Bet' not play with me 'cause I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Nigga, bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me - boy, I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me - boy, I wish you would
I'ma hit your hood, then split your hood
Niggas bet' not play with me 'cause I cock my gun
Then I pop my gun
Better hide and run

Niggas bet' not play with me
Look, uh-huh (uh-huh uh-huh)
Look look look
Look look look
Whoa


Dawg you gotta feel me on this one
What it be like dawg, I'm on some some adope grown up type shit
Look who I be around nigga, look who I been around nigga
Geezy, Juve and Turk, B and Slim dawg pay attention dawg

Age is nothin' but some digits nigga trust me on this
Cas I think I speak for every one when I say life is a bitch
I ride D L in the C L Gun right in my grip
I slip a clip in every whip, cas hatas likely to trip
Come home to my future wife and every night she'll flip
She end up catchin bites to her lips behind diapers and shit
But I light me a spliff drink henney without ice when I'm pissed
Go to the club and start a fight thinkin' I'm Tyson and shit
But I'm a man so I'm here to handle my situtions correctly
And I know I might be young but niggas gone definitely respect me
But in the mean time I'm fightin gun charges in court
And in a couple of weeks our next tour about to start
It's like I'm never happy now
Except for the fact my daughter sayin' I love you daddy now
And that kinda juice me up and I smoke about 3 blunts
And puff a Kool it boost me up
And say a prayer for everyday
Just so I get through the stuff but I be like

Ah man, it's complicated doin' everythang on your own man
Being responsible for everybody in ya home man
And when you feel like everythang is goin' wrong man
I'm gone stand 'cause I am a GROWN MAN

I try to keep my head up, but I die to keep my bread up
And usually I'm fed up thinkin' everythang's a set up
But I get up this shit, stick out my chest and clutch on my nuts
And I get hit up with all kinda stress
And put up wit the stuff trust me it's tough
But I mantain to climb through it all
And I still manage to be Lil Wayne therefore I shine and I ball
And dawg I live for today and hope and pray that there's a tomorrow
And I borrow confidence from out my heart when thangs get awfall
And I'm walkin' on the edge stuck without a solution
And someway I still pick it out and shuffle to conclusion
And I don't need nobody else so keep yo advice and jus doubt me
Cas y'all cats don't really no me y'all jus no 'bout me
So if my dawgs be on my side they keep me covered with spirit
And plus I know my fathers watchin and my mother's the dearest
And I ain't neva said they don't appreciate what I do
But jus know if I wasn't a man I wouldn't make it through

Who would have known that this was somthin that didn't turn out so hectic
But I chose my own life so I gradually accept it
I'm influenced and effected by the way it became
And I don't play with them at all so I don't say it's a game
And even though I grew up hard and I have gracefully change
I'm always street so I'll forever be facin a change
And I'll keep this thang brutained on the waist of my pants
And I demand respect from all if not then I'm waisten a man
And if I want it then I get and if I need it I have it
Take care of them family first 'cause the liquir and weed is a habit
And I'm so often I'm congratulated for the succeeding at last
But when they turn they back I just have Jesus leadin my path
And I didn't ask for you to like me I don't care if you hate me
But don't mistake me no otha man can neva make me or break me
And I'm faithfully inspired by the hood tell I'm gone
And dawg I do believe I'm grown
So I'll be good on my own but I be like

(Chorus) fading... Believe Dat


(Wayne)
What, wha, wha, wha, wha
What, wha, wha, wha, wha
Cash Mo-ney Millionairs
So take it there

(Juvenile)
Yellow Viper, yellow Hummer, Yellow Benz
Yellow PT Cruiser, yellow 'Lac on rims
Drop yellow 'Vette and a platinum Rolls Royce
That's seven different cars, everyday I got a choice
On my way to pick up Joyce, she be makin' me moist
Givin' me head while she hummin, she can play with her voice
And she got nice thighs, a big plump ass
She could ride a dick too, make me come fast
I like them modelin bitches, I love them swallowin bitches
Where them hoes, there they at, I'm 'bout to follow them bitches (let's go)
I know you with your folks, but that nigga is broke
You might as well open your legs up and let a nigga poke
I'm a show you what it is not to be a window shopper
Mama you can have Fendi, mama you can have Prada
All you gotta do is break a nigga off proper
You could be with your man, I ain't tryna stop ya

(Chorus-Baby)
(Shine), from my head down to my shoes
(Shine), skiiiiirtin on twenty-two's
(Shine), check my baby mama
(Shine), whip Rover's not Honda's
(Shine), I'm a spend it till it's gone
(Shine), don't know when I'm comin' home
(Shine), pop X and drank Cris'
(Shine), My life is the shit

(Lil Wayne)
Baby named me, fire Wayne, ice and change
You can catch me in an aqua Range, squattin things
With them twenty-two inch chopper blades
Diamond face, diamond brace
More colors than the game Simon Says
Go, 'hind me
And mami on forty-fifth she told me "I'm a Lez"
But she ain't like too much of dick
But gave bombest head, and so I took it anyway
But bitch I got family get your pussy anyway
OK, let's talk about this ice that I'm carryin
All these karats like I'm a fuckin' vegetarian
Niggas play, I bury them, y'all already knowin'
I threw up my arm and bitches thought it started snowin
See I'm a keep it goin', Big Tymin, you heard's me?
Dog I got cake like everyday my birthday
Wait, I don't think they heard me
I say dog I got cake like everyday my birthday

(B.G.)
I'm a Hot Boy, that's name brand and top of the line
Ride fly daily, all year 'round I shine
Ain't a nigga and they mama gonna stop me dog
Come through on dub-dueces, they jock me dog
Glock cocked for haters tryna block me dog
Catch 'em so low, they geezy, don't shock me dog
Well get the fuck, slide on out the way
And let B.G. ease down the shinin linen
Let the diamonds and the jewelry light shit up
Each piece of jewelry I own, I ice it up
You don't wanna put your vehicle next to us
'Cause all of our vehicles, we dress 'em up
With television, Dreamcast, DVDs
Nice sounds, buttons, it's twenties
I'm a Cash Money Hot Big Tymer nigga
That'll hold a pinky finger up and blind ya nigga

(Turk)
I'm a stunt till I die, so you better respect it
'Cause whoever try testin is gonna be restin
I'm a young millionaire, Hot Boy, Lil' Turk
Bling blingin everyday, plus I got work (bling)
Nigga like me stay in the cut twenty-four/seven
Steady stackin my ends on dubs, twenty-four/seven
Every car you wish you had, we got it, we got it
Bentleys, Hummers and Jags, big bodies, big bodies
Love to floss, no secret stun'ner's
Niggas steady baller block, can't take nothin' from us
Young nigga, livin' a life surrounded by ice
Hoes be like, "Damn, them boys, they're nothin' nice"
They on fire, that must be them Hot Boys
You muthafuckin right, you think this not girl?
Better think twice, get it right dog
Know you recognize, we got it on lock for all

(Baby talking to fade)


We gone make 'em:

Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump,
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive
Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump,
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive

I tell 'em no lie
I blow by wit the Bentleys wit the O eyes
I low-ride, 'cause these 20 inch rims just make it so hot
You know I, been had Twinkie, look at the pinky
And the link be all the way down to the nuts, diamonds twinklin'
They think you need to stop they say it's not called for
It's such a small car for it cost more than a ballpark
See my life is high priced, a lot a room a lot a bling
My ice is like Andrew Dice "Ba-Da-Boom, Ba-Da-Bing"
I'm tryin' to see flying in a Lamborghini
Wit your girl right beside me in a tan bikini
Cut the music down and tell her, "hey ya man's a weenie"
Plus I'm hot and got more iceberg than damn Bananeeie
And I'm just a teenager and I make this dough
Pull out my bankcard and Bill Gates feel broke
And I keep it on a hush but I'm richer than normal
And a frost bit wrist, have me sniffin and coughin

Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump,
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive
Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump,
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive

You know, pistol on my side fully loaded
I drive slowly, wit televisions watching Kobe
Pull over by some broad; make her hop right in a blow me
And suck a nigga drive, then its, "slut get out my ride"
Have you heard about, shorty be Iceberged out
Got them birds real affordable, so get the word out
And you still can see the grill wit the lights burn out
Nothin' lil' about the wheels on my bright orange drop
I'm thuggin' and pimped out, flossin and glissed out
Sit my arm in warm water, I'm thawin my wrist out
Got quarters in this house, ki's in that van,
Got ounces in her ride, and G's in that bag
Shhh, You hear that, here come Weezy on his way in a platinum leer jet
We gamblin' nigga bet, bet nigga disrespect and he get dampled and wet
Whole goddamn family get trampled wit that
I make 'em:

Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive
Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive

All right I bounce for the 17 and jump for the Grover
Just put TV's and bump in the Rover
Slump the bitch over, cum on her shoulder
Bet I make the slut eat it up like yogurt
Wrists is ferocious, dick just bogus
Fuck a hoe watch she come back like a chorus
Life on Ann Deloris met her in a ???
She like to snort coke, you should see the size of her nose is
We really the ones controllin', no choices
And we got Guns and Roses, Rolls Royces
Beefin' ain't fake, not to mention
All our rides are dubbed like blank tapes
I really think my jewelry and lights have somethin' in common
'Cause every time you put them bitches on they start shinin'
The shit is mind blowin'
As a matter of fact I got a bitch that's mind blowin'
She give my head a blow job, I guess she's mind blowin'

Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive
Jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jump
Jiggy, jump, jiggy, jiggy, jump, jiggy, jump, jive


Into the roads
Its open
Bare to your left my heart sits here
This is my dream and its hopeless
This is the bed I lie in yeah

I only move for the gut punch
Seeing your pain brings me such joy
Love will only take you
Into the bed you lie in yeah

'Cause I'm me
I'm me revenge is my thing
Watch 'em bleed, yeah I like it
Yeah I like it
Yeah I like it
Yeah, yeah

Ooh I fell off the truck
Out of luck
So perturbed
Ooh get me off the ground
To be found
Call my name on the loud speaker uh

Claim me
Loud enough for me
To hear

Into the roads
Its open
Bare to your left my heart sits here
This is my dream and its hopeless
This is the bed I lie in yeah

I only move for the gut punch
Seeing your pain brings me such joy
Love will only take you
Into the bed you lie in yeah

Mm yeah

This is from the heart this is what we live for
Now back to the cheese the cheese
This is from the heart this is what we live for
Now back to the cheese the cheese
At ease
At ease
At ease

Into the roads
Its open
Bare to your left my heart sits here
This is my dream and its hopeless
This is the bed I lie in yeah

I only move for the gut punch
Seeing your pain brings me such joy
Love will only take you
Into the bed you lie in yeah


Life of a suburban kid
Existentialism
I ain't never care much for esoteric shit
He said "I ain't got no real thoughts"
I could use some adderall in my green tea
Some ice up in my soymilk
I keep an angel on my shoulder devil in my head
He said...

Violate the bounds of platitude [2x]
Who do I do it for?
Who do I do it for?
I hope I do it for you

Try to fight the numbness
Still don't have an answer
Figure when I die it will make sense
Maybe God will answer
Until then

I'm drowning in this world of platitude
Feel like I'm drowning in this world of platitude
What do I do it for?
What do I do it for?
Maybe I do it for you
Baby I do it for you

Little red man leaving my head
Lay around in my dreams
Come alive in my nightmares
Ignore my rambles
Hoping that you hear me
Hoping that I'm heard
If your not careful
I'll take scissors to my mind
Scissors to my mind
Snip snip

Tell me what you want from me yeah
For you
Tell me what you want from me yeah
Baby I do it for you
Tell me what you want from me yeah
For you
Tell me what you want from me yeah


Pain reliever
Fever reducer
Ten to the head
Does that make me a loser?
I took nine shots of that fifth
Gone gone gone
Eight hits of that spliff
Gone I got
Seven reasons why I'm not sure of six things
On my mind and I'm comin' off this high five

Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for me
Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for free

Second verse on my third beer
Kill all these voices that I feel I hear
Mob to the bride, I'm
Keeping the faith, I'm
Holding the fight, A
Hell of a night
It's a hell of a night

Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for me
Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for free

Only when I'm alone
Only when I was on one
(One one one one)
Live like I'm living today
Live like today was my last one
(One one one one)

Falling from this high
(Falling falling)
From this high
(One one one one)

Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for me
Love me for nothing
Don't even love me for free

All that I pray
I pray when I die, I die real

All that I pray
I pray when I die, I die real


I'm tired of time travel
I rather stay here with my thoughts
Wish they'd stay
Misunderstood
I'm miseducated
Umm
You should just save me

I just wanna live
How it should be
Over
What it is
Over
Can I get a heartbreak
Over
Unstick my thoughts
Unstick my heart
Unstick these words
Go from the start

Take me to reality
And drag me to the truth
Take me to reality
Drag me to the truth

Come clean, soul
Yearning for things, are numb
Do me good then jus so
Look with the light, I see
Top of my sight I'm scared
Can't sleep at night


I'd rather die than, be your slave
Slit my wrist wide and take this stage
Wipe blood out my eyes and
You just lay, there
You think I'm crazy... I am

I love you like I love crack-crack (I do)
I love you like I like to get high (I do)
I love you like I love crack-crack (I do)
I love you like I like to get high

I'm just a unicorn
Come catch me
Strip me in chains until I bleed
You know I like it
That's why should I stay here
Why should I fight it?
I won't, I won't

Chosen from a small town
Lookin' for some action
Thought I could [?]
But I can't
I just crave the pain boy
I just love the thrill

I'd do for you
Anything
I'd do anything


This here is the epic tale of a broken mind
This here, this here is the epic tale of a broken mind
This here, this here is the epic tale, this here is the epic tale

And I'll be by your side
And I'll be by your side

I hear my thoughts, I hear them creep into my mind, into my dreams
Voices in my head say to me, "Untie my hands, untie my feet"
So I might fly, so I might fly

This here is the epic tale of a broken mind
This, this here's the epic tale
This here is the epic tale of a broken mind
This, this here's the epic tale
This here is the epic tale of a broken mind
This, this here's the epic tale

And I'll be by your side
And I'll be by your side

Like clouds under my feet I try not to think
Not to feel like I'm stuck in this space I'm just me
I'm just so much more, so much more, so much
I'm so much more, I feel I'm so much more
(Feel like I'm so much more)

One day if I live I'll tell the tale how I lost my mind
One day, one day if I live
One day if I live I'll tell the tale how I lost my mind
One day, one day if I live

And I'll be by your side
And I'll be by your side

I'll be, I'll be, I'll be right here by your side
Won't go no where, I'll stay right here by your side
I'll be, I'll be, I'll be right here by your side
Won't go no where, I'll stay right here by your

Lost my mind, can't seem to find it but I'll be here
But I'll be here though


High up on, high up on, high up on you
High up on, high up on, high up on us
High up on, high up on, high up on we
High up on, high up on, high up on, kush for me

I'm high moon, high moon
High up on, high up on, high up on us
High up on, high up on, high up on
High up on, high up on, high up on you
I'm high up on, high up on high up on

Didn't I tell you
Didn't I say that
Didn't I tell you
A high like this won't last?

So I'm the fool, you could make it
Don't wanna be alone with him naked
Be a shame we're just gonna waste it
Oh

High up on high
High up on climax
High up on you
High up on you should spend the night
Ima do my thang
High up on high up on we
High up on high up on high up on

Didn't I tell you?
Didn't I say that?
(4x)

K bye


Wish I was prettier a little for ya
Maybe I'll understand when I get older
I just don't get it yet
I'm not finished yet

Feel like maturity is overrated
None of my panties match my momma hates it
I'm not into that
She just don't get it yet

Whooo could I be?
Passions clearer for me, me, me, me
So
Tell me if it's easier for ya
Tell me if it's easier for YOU
Tell me if it's easier for ya
Tell me it gets easier for me

Shattered a thousand times before you found me
Kickin the pieces I bet I'll never amount to
Anything, I just don't get it yet
Not meant to get it yet

Boxes and paradigms I move around it
Spaces inside your mind I'm safe and sound where
I can breath, I feel, I can breath
Don't leave me yet!

Whoooo could I be
Visions clearer for me, me, me, me

Tell me if it's easier for you... [3x]
Tell me it gets easier for me

Sandcastles and all that shit that I like


Picture yourself in a padded room
Welcome to my terror dome
Picture yourself in a padded room
Welcome to my terror dome

Figured you'd had enough of being alone
Figured you call me
Glinda, ya good witch
...Sensei, Ya good bitch
I'll be there
Call me when ya ready

Uh
I'll be ya good witch call me
Uh
I'll save ya if I can call me

Not frightened after you trust your own thoughts
Catch the Delirium, contagious
I think I owe you more
I feel I show you more
You're my eight packs of soft
Savor like a now or later
I think about you now or later

I'll be your savior, call me
Catch you if I can, call me

Feel I've gone far
Tell me where to go from here
Little girl, Lost boy
That's how I feel
Sail me away

Picture yourself

Just picture yourself
Picture yourself
Picture yourself
Picture yourself in a candy land
I wanna go there, alone
All of the morphine you can stand
Padded rooms
Picture yourself


I apologize for waiting to tell you for so long
I am not human
I am made of bacon, fairy tales, pixie dust, I don't feel
I hung myself and didn't die
I'm omnipotent, I'm alive
Not real, I'm alive

You leave me careless, I like it
I like it

Caught up in the blast
Caught up in the action
Caught up in the bursting flame
There's comfort in dying
There's comfort in burning I burn

Maybe we should burn
Maybe we should burn, burn

Doubt I'll ever be anyone's baby
Living as a unicorn gets so lonely
I have no answers
I have No questions
Stuck in your tandem
Heat that's worth standing
I like it

I can feel the accidents happening slowly
Falling for the rapture ever so boldly
I will go willingly
You don't have to kidnap
I'd like to be kidnapped
You leave me careless, I like it
I like it

Maybe we should burn
Maybe we should burn
Maybe we should burn
Maybe we should burn, burn

Doubt I'll ever be anyone's baby


Can anyone live with Eartha Kitt?

That's not for me to decide. That's for someone who decides to live with me to decide. Not for me

But are you willing to compromise within a relationship?

To compromise? What is compromising? Compromising for what? Compromising for what reason? To compromise? For what? To compromise. What is compromise?

If a man came into your life, wouldn't you want to compromise?

Stupid. A man comes into my life and I have to compromise? You must think about that one again.
A man comes into my life and you have to compromise? For what? For what? For what? A relationship is a relationship that has to be earned! Not to compromise for! And I love relationships. I think they're fantastic. But one thing I think that's great I think is, nothing in the world more beautiful than falling in love. But falling in love for the right reasons. Falling in love for the right purpose. Falling in love. Falling in love. When you fall in love, what is there to compromise about?

Ise' got to make this quick
I don't want to waste time
Make it faster, stronger, deeper
Pulled out with the passion rolled out
Roll out on the red carpet
Roll out the chariot
Friar, dancing
By the fire
Singing
I'm leaving, tonight
I'm leaving tonight
I'm leaving tonight tonight
Yeah
Haven't we been here before
Haven't you heard the end of the story?
It isn't over yet
Keep patience on the left side of your brain
Virtues are relative
No pain
(Alright)


Pray for yourself one time
One time, time

Young Medusa
Never sure, I just do
I jumped off the bridge
You say I fell
I say I flew
Missing parachute
Feeling like topanga
Patty mayonnaise
Kind of average
With queen qualities
Got molecules, I possess
Ever more nothing less

I think I'm starting to feel something
Here in the dark
I think I'm starting to feel something

Keep burning up
Pray for yourself one time
One time, time

Broken glass unswept in my mind
Brooms to heavy to bare
Struggles that I find
Confusion
Gravity is relative
Sand castles are still real life
They hold dreams
Like the real ones do
I take care building castles too


Summertime sadness
I feel India in my bones
I can smell sunlight
I can feel the highline
Bless me
Gods bless me
Goddess of Forbidden Love
I am she
I keep one white candle
Maintain
Purity, purity

Show me the way to your hiding place
I think I wanna go go there
Show me the way to your hiding place
I think I wanna go go go go there
Go to church if you scared

I lay formless
Hands tied in my sheets
Star signs say I'm rare
Chosen
By who
I-I-I-I-I
I wonder who's watchin'
Whose wing I'm under
Sweep me up and I'll go
No questions take me
I'll go!

Show me the way
Yea yea yea
Yea yea yea
Yea yea yea

100


Wouldn't you like to believe
I'm on the edge
I feel your power on my back
You're murderous, you're murderous
Swept and I fall, euphoria
Breeze in my eyes
Wake me when it's over
Wake me when it's over

So painless, I feel the fall
Power trip, I need it all
I need it all

When you're around, I feel it
When I'm alone, I feel the waves
Crashing, down down
Here in your arms, surround me
I feel your wings


Keep your intentions pure don't be scared don't mince words
I don't mince words
My narcissism keeps me level
Keeps me straight no curve balls
Got no curve balls stay straight here
You wish that I was less than I am
Less than I will be but I won't
No I won't
Kismet, serendipity
Reflections
I am him and he is me
Kismet... Serendipity


Clarity is a state of mind
Freedom ain't real, who's sold you that lie?
I ain't buying it
No matter what the price (one more time? Aight)
So give it up give it up mama
Undo your pants and your bra
I see you liking that, you must need a slice...
Type A personality
Extrovert, introvert, commonalities
A Type A personality
Just dumb enough to lie to me

U R, U R (We, Are...)

Superficial, Superwoman
Ain't you tired of that wind in your face?
Your skin taste likes brussell sprouts I swear
Can't seem to remember your face
So give it up give it up papa
Make it make sense to me
I can not go any further then 2 steps in-front of me
I'm lost in...


Ripping the heads off all my Barbie dolls
Toss them to the side, give them convertibles
Click vroom, I like the way it rides up
Ken had it all, Skipper wanted more than
Watching from the sidelines, wish that she had it
She wish that she had it
Here in your backyard, building a fantasy
Fuck reality, do you want to know, know me
Do you want to know me?
Stuck in Nintendo, you're the controller
Street Fighter sin search
I yelled finish him
(Down goes Frazier)
I yelled, finish him
I'm Desdemona
Othello in tragedies
Shakespeare in sorrows
Where do I begin?
Where do we begin?

I got L's on my record
Weed on the vinyl
Keys open doors when them keys is albino
Now knock on my door when my stars is a Lionel
I've been fishing for a minute for a minnow
Only I know that a pawn is a trade
And a rookie for a castle like tuition for a final
Playing hooky for a tassel, spend a minute on the minor
Winds on my window
Ash on my skin, when the record low temps for the wind blow
Only write rhythm to the tardiest of tempos
Only ride shotgun when the car is a limo
Y'ar see
I crowd surf in a cypher
Scuba in my shower, take an Uber to my neighbors
Used to pay the piper, till peter picked it better
Now the first thing you should tell is where the hell is all the paper
But memories keep coming back
All the nights that we used to laugh
Wanna know how I used to was, how I used to was

Memories keep playing back, all the nights we used to love
Just wondering how we used to was, how we used to was


Here soon, here soon

Loving alone is what you make it (make it)
Stay for the storm if you can take it (take it)
But pray for a raincoat
Go up to where they're blind to
Mistakes
I know you worry a lot
I'll be here for you
Do I care enough?
Do I feel for you?
I can guarantee

Come on, this one

I didn't know you tried
Cause you wanted more
And didn't know you cried
Cause you wanted more
Things don't happen the way you hoped to
I'm just keeping a little hope, baby
I didn't know you tried
Cause you wanted more

Dying my daydreams in your bedroom (bedroom)
Waiting so long, said you'd be here soon (here soon)
How could you forget that
I'm the one who
Forgot all your mistakes
And dirty drawers
You know I care for you
When hell over earth came
I stood for you
Will you stand for me?

Funny how life is turning out
I don't have much to talk about
Don't have much to write about
Got a shitload to cry about
Funny the words I do kick
Funny the niggas I do pick
It's funny what sticks
(Go figure)
Mama said I'm sensitive
I gotta work on that
Not really
Tired of using adjectives, I gotta build on that
You feel me?
Not really

Young man, tryna find the world in a broken hand


Hey, hey glory child, hey

Hey glory child, don't you worry
Stuttering, shaken off your fear
Beauty's never given in a hurry
So condescending, leave your questions here
Hey glory child, don't you worry
I can see your skeleton so clear
Doubting's only made your visions blurry
You're better off just looking in the mirror

Show me a better way, I wish you could
Show me a better way, I wish you would
Come home today, you could
Come home today

I am shooting stars you will never see me
Watching over your every mistake
Digging out of graves is never easy
Handing you my shovel, here to take
Always playing catch me if you can
Gingerbread you heard I'm sweet to taste
Close your eyes let go and count to ten
I'll keep track of every moment wasted

Dear God make me a bird
So I can fly far, far far away

Call your phone on a late night
I recall your soul and it taste like
Gardens, flowers, Warm Winds

Quit clipping on your feet
Quit clipping on your wings
Sometimes we hate to leave somebody
What's happening to we?
Warm winds on a space ride
When I call your phone on a late night
I recall your soul and it taste like...
Gardens, flowers, Warm Winds

Quit clipping on your feet
Quit clipping on your wings
Sometimes we hate to leave somebody
What's happening to we?
Warm winds on a space ride

Sometimes, I call your name out loud
Just to make sure it's you
Sometimes, I crack my veins so bad
Just to see if it's blue
You clean me up

Sometimes I bite my lips and close my eyes
Just to pretend it's you
Long live, lonely thoughts on Thursday nights
That's when I think of you
We were all thirteen once
Long live tramp stamps and Pepper Ann
You will never judge me for that
You will always love me for that

Warm winds on a space ride
When I call your phone on a late night
I recall your soul and it taste like...
Gardens, flowers, Warm Winds


Go forth, spread the news
I'm a little late
Go on, cut the rope
I know you hate it
Two knives, no fork
Wonder who'd make it?
I lose for you, I choose for you

Gun fighting
Fatality, boy
Hell fire, boy
I stay for eternity

For you, for you
For, for you I stay
For you, for you
For, for you I

Sometimes I keep you in my mind
Sometimes I let you go up high
I'm using everything I find
Do anything to keep you tied up
Tied up

Stationary, birds await
Small canary, princess
Young savage girl, lost among the lily pads
One road no choice, I've given you this
Move moons for you, I choose to do it


Shotgun to the back of my heart
I don't turn around to see who let one ring out
Said you'll never do me wrong?
Guess we see how that plays out
Is it true? Is it true?

Heading to the Massacre
Bodies arriving every day
Look at those shells you heard
Picking the bones up along the way
Let it ring out

Sharpshooter in my backyard
Killed a small boy once, never told no one
If it wasn't for my shotgun, he'd be alive
And I'd be halfway, to heaven
Instead of sitting in the dark, going through hell
You should've been here
Wish you had been here

Shotgun to the back of my heart
I don't turn around to see who let one ring out

Lately I've been questioning
Am I all that I pretend to be?
I doubt it, I doubt it
Lately I've been questioning
Am I all that I pretend to be?
I doubt it, I doubt it


Crucify, cru-crucify me
Crucify, cru-cru

I can't recall the last time I took, advice from anyone
Shaped like a figure eight, who trusts pretty girls anyway?
And I can't recall the last time I took advice from anyone
I'm sure I'll be the death of me
And I can't recall the last time I took love from anyone
I called daddy, who's got one anyway?
Not me

Are you hating yourself?
Do you really hate me?
Are you hating yourself?

Was it worth it?
Would you do it again?
Aren't you tired?, of always making amends? Oh
I know you hate me now (here)
I bet you hate me now (here)
Bring on the thorny crown (here)
Crucify me

Kendrick Lamar:
Cross my heart then I hope to die with a peace of mind (a peace of mind)
Piece together my brain soon as this beat rewind (beat rewind)
Nitrogen and propane I spike your drink at times (turn up, turn up)
I make it hard to swallow this game, you throw up every line (every line)
I notice people got Napoleon complexes, that's my confession (yeah that)
You said that we're equal but I know you're beyond guessing that I'm beyond desperate (yeah that)
6AM on a Friday morning, my darkest hours
Them heartless hours
My apartment is lost in a coffin
I'm dead to the world like I popped me a couple downers
Down &amp; Out on my luck
Salt water all on my tux and I call, she don't pick up
Then I fall when summer is ending
I mean there's no pretending I'm stuck in my ways and you're offended
That's life, that's you, this me, that vice
You're wrong, I'm right, that's right
I belong somewhere on ice
I'm cold, I'm a new blood type, even colder
Cold shoulder, Born Sinner, you know? Cole showed us!
I have nothing to lose, my dark side been well in-tuned
A Gemini go show them faces
And this here just one of my moods, Babylon

Was it worth it?
Would you do it again?
Aren't you tired?, of always making amends? Oh
I know you hate me now (here)
I bet you hate me now (here)
Bring on the thorny crown (here)
Crucify me

Crucify, cru-crucify me
Crucify, cru-cru

Crucify, cru-crucify me
Crucify, cru-cru

I'm really over the cryin' thing, wipin' my tears
Who cries anyway, spread like disease all over me
We did ungodly ghastly things, last night I mean
Who's God anyway?
You're mine any day
It's burning
Take me
I wanna feel
Your power
This final hour
Tell me

Are you losing yourself?
Will you lose it for me?
Are you losing yourself?

Was it worth it?
Would you do it again?
Aren't you tired?, of always making amends? Oh
I know you hate me now (here)
I bet you hate me now (here)
Bring on the thorny crown (here)
Crucify me

Crucify, cru-crucify me
Crucify, cru-cru

Crucify, cru-crucify me
Crucify, cru-cru


Jesus called me collect last night
It took all of me not to answer
Daddy warned me the perils of play
Hard to deal God it's his standard
Flying high and fearless baby
I've kissed death a thousand times before

Remember me for who I was not who I am
I'll pray you never understand this
Sweet, sweet, sweet sweet November

Heard you fucking with Tommy again
Remember where that landed you last time
That nigga don't really love you girl
He just beds you every night it's his past-time
Blind eye and the feel is dark and
You two might just do it raw tonight
Heaven help if he leave you girl
I bet you bought two new thongs this time


It's up for discussion, up for reprise
Slowly re-thinking if current disguise deceives me
The Shattered Ring
I can see it in your eyes

Ready or not, loaded heart with a dagger
Aim for your sweet spot
I know you'd rather be scared of
I know you'd rather just disappear
Now that I'm here
I know you'd rather

Giddy up Goldilocks, you took too long to save me
Bumping that Jadakiss is dangerous for sanity
Open my candy box, for you sir, sugar daddy
Look at how drunk we are, spent the night, dancing
(Spent the night, dancing)


Let the church say Amen
Release all my sins at the pulpit
It's the beginning [8x]
It's the beginning of my sermon
You hold my hand as an infant
Palms to the sky, Adonai, Ya Allah
Till they all come down
Till we all fall down
Down...

Lines drawn in the sun
Keep the sun at your back
Keep your feet firmly planted in the sky
Just ride

When you don't know yourself
If it hurts you to explain
You're God in my eyes
Just ride

Up here, the air is so thin
Mountains on my fingertips
I stand at the tippy, screaming at the top of my lungs
Tears in my eyes
Adonai, Ya Allah, answer my calls if you hear me?
Adonai, Ya Allah, answer my calls if you're near me?

Lines drawn in the sun
Keep the sun at your back
Keep your feet firmly planted in the sky
Just ride

When you don't know yourself
If it hurts you to explain
You're God in my eyes
Just ride

Lines drawn in the sun
Keep the sun at your back
Keep your feet firmly planted in the sky
Just ride

It's the beginning


spoken:
That is my greatest fear
That if, if I lost control
Or did not have control, things would just, you know
I would be... fatal

I'm writing this letter to let you know
I'm really leaving
And no I'm not keeping your shit
Heard you got some new homies
Got some new hobbies
Even a new hoe too
Maybe she can come help you
Maybe she can come lay do
After we're done
What's done is done
I don't want nothing else to do with it
Let me tell you a secret
I been secretly banging your homeboy
Why you in Vegas
All up on Valentine's Day?
Why am I so easy to forget like that?
It can't be that easy for you to get like that
Oh no she didn't
Ooh yes I did
Oh no she didn't
I'll do it again

Leave me lonely for prettier women
You know I need too much attention
For shit like that
You know you wrong
For shit like that
I could be your supermodel
If you believe
If you see it in me
See it in me
See it in me
I don't see myself
Why I can't stay alone just by myself?
Wish I was comfortable just with myself
But I need you
I need you
I need you

Ooh just get a load of them
They got chemistry
All they could say
We like brother and sister
Look so good together
Bet they fuckin' for real
And they was right
That's why I stayed with ya
The-the dick was too good
It made me feel good
For temporary love
You was a temporary lover

Leave me lonely for prettier women
You know I need too much attention
For shit like that
You know you wrong
For shit like that
I could be your supermodel
If you believe
If you see it in me
See it in me
See it in me
I don't see myself
Why I can't stay alone just by myself?
Wish I was comfortable just with myself
But I need you
I need you
I need you


Why is it so hard to accept the party is over?
You came with your new friends
And her mom jeans and her new Vans
And she's perfect and I hate it, oh so glad you made it
I'm so glad you could come by
Somebody get the tacos, somebody spark the blunt
Let's start the Narcos off at episode one
Bring the gin, got the juice
Bring the sin, got that too
Whoa, just shut up, know you're my favorite
Am I...

Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Is it warm enough for ya inside me, me, me, me
Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Warm enough outside, inside me, me, me, me

I get so lonely, I forget what I'm worth
We get so lonely, we pretend that this works
I'm so ashamed of myself think I need therapy-y-y-y
I'm sorry I'm not more attractive
I'm sorry I'm not more ladylike
I'm sorry I don't shave my legs at night
I'm sorry I'm not your baby mama
I'm sorry you got karma comin' to you
Collect and soak in it right

Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Is it warm enough for ya inside me, me, me, me?
Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Warm enough outside, inside me, me, me, me

Sorry, I just need to see you
I'm sorry I'm so clingy I don't mean to be a lot
Do you really wanna love me down like you say you do?
Give it to me like you say you do?
'Cause it's hard enough you got to treat me like this
Lonely enough to let you treat me like this
Do you really love me
Or just wanna love me down, down, down, down?

Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Is it warm enough for ya inside me, me, me, me?
Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah
(Tell me that it's warm enough here for ya)
Warm enough outside, inside me, me, me, me

Warm enough outside, inside
Warm enough outside, inside me-me-me-me, me-me-me
Oh-whoa, is it warm enough outside, inside?


Fearin' not growin' up
Keepin' me up at night
Am I doin' enough?
Feel like I'm wastin' time

Promise to get a little
Better as I get older
And you're so patient
And sick of waitin'
Promise to do better
Shoulda coulda
Prolly wanna let me go
But you can't, oh
Right now I feel it pourin'
I need a little bit
Just a little bit
Just a little bit
Right now I feel it pourin'
I need a little bit
Just a little bit
Just a little bit

Please don't take it, don't take it personal
Like I know you usually do
Please don't take it, don't take it personal
Like I know you usually do
Please, please
Don't take it personal
Don't take it personal
Darling, like I know you will

Forget to call your mama on the weekend
You should put yourself in time out
Shame, shame on you
But lately you've been feelin' so good
I forget my future, never pull out
Shame, shame on me
Baby the money'll make it easier for me
To run and hide out somewhere
So far away
Hoppin' through poppy fields
Dodgin' evil witches
These houses keep droppin' everywhere

Promise to get a little
Better as I get older
And you're so patient
And sick of waitin'
Promise to do better
Shoulda coulda
Prolly wanna let me go
But you can't, oh
Right now I feel it pourin'
I need a little bit
Just a little bit
Just a little bit
Right now it's really pourin'
I need a little bit
Just a little bit
Just a little bit

Please don't take it, don't take it personal
Like I know you usually do
Please don't take it, take it personal
Like I know you usually do

Like winters fall on us, heavy
Take it off me, all it off
Winter, I can't stand this
Snow is falling all on me


You know, a lot of people ask me
Why I feel, that, you know
I've gotten a lot of notoriety so quickly
And, umm, I don't know
People seem to be under the impression
That, I made it to this point, FAST
And, y'know obviously for me
I don't feel like that 'cause it's me y'know
I feel like I've been doing it, for ten billion years
But, every time someone says something like that to me
I remember to just thank God for, y'know, getting me this far
Cause sometimes you don't realize how far you've gotten
Until you look around and, and you look at the people who
Who, who are still trailing so far behind you
And I know that, that no matter what, it's
In the end it's not gonna be about my talent, y'know
It's not gonna be about my connections
It's not gonna be about my looks
It's, it's gonna be about, who wants it, the most
Annnnd, I want it the most!


I just came out of the muthafuckin' old school
Got my mac notebook with the pro tools
Y'all bitches ain't ready for Nicki Lewinsky
Bad woof woof flyer then a frisby
So I'm up in (?) eating mangoes
Keep a couple pink toes in my sandals
Got some bangles all over my ankles
Such a star they say wen I star spangle
But for buh; buh; buh; buh
I-I-I-I am the the the rap Hannah
Ma Mon-Montana so fix your antenna
I keep three hoes but don't call me Santa
And I am flyer then reindeers in the winter

I get crazy
I get crazy

Nicki Minaj:
So I got the bad bitch mentality 'cause I just came from another galaxy
I be with the president up in the White House
If we in the oval office then the lights out
'Cause I am the wicked witch I'm the Nickster
And I keep a bad bitch on my jickster
But I leave her in a second for a thicker
Rockstar little mama with a guitar
I am Nicki LMNO-winsky
I mean my name ring bells like Tinky
I mean tinker
Tell that nigga link her
'Cause I'm looking for some good brains from a thinker

Weezy:
1 2 3rd Floor
Hospital Bound
Niggas is doors and I knock niggas down
Straight jacket crooked, I hear you lookin'
I promise I'm hard, and I swear you pussy
I ain't crazy, no, yes I am
Right up in the coo-coo nest I land
I'm' fly now eat my bird shit
Yeah I'm crazy, I'm' crazy 'bout your bitch
Wild animal on my bewildered shit
I love brain so I'm looking for a nerd bitch
It's Nicki Minaj, the superb witch
And Weezy F. Baby, no, Weezy F. Crazy


I got my mind on my money and I'm not goin' away
So keep on gettin' your paper.

Brinx:
Now you hold it your excellence
See I t.c oh forward slash president
East side resident oh so evident
Brinx Billy ride cousin black on black phantom 26s on the side of 'em
Ninas on the side of em, goonies on the side of 'em
Anybody can get it boy be careful on the side of them
These niggas are burial guns no fearial
Money hungry honey with me if you holla she gonna carry you
Flyer than a aerial vechical gerital
Sittin' on my feet when I'm stuntin' on them people
I tell no fables everything chillin'
Fax machines office max see me for that paper
You workin' for short bread ain't my money long younging
Bitch I'm on trappin' more digits than a phone number different time zones on 'em Kill them niggas lyrically
Left side of my closet look invaded by Italy
Right side Paris left side flaggin' paper is my main chick me and money married
And that's all a nigga know bitch that's why them brand new niggas is all up on my old shit

(Speaking: Nicki Minaj)
That's what I did I came up out the truck, you know what I'm sayin'
I chuck my deuces like that's all I do, like
Young Money, Nicki Minaj it's the ninja, Harajuku Barbie and all of that
Nah I'm sayin' all that me gettin' money you writin' disses we gettin' money

Hit me my limousine, all in your magazine
And when I come them better lean like Promethazine
Them no say Nicki nice I'm bout' my money mama
And tell Michelle I got my eye on Barack Obama
Tryna get that Madonna, you know, Hannah Montana
And you can find me sittin' Indian style with the Dalai Lama
Konichiwa I get my yin and say sayonara
I'm meditating, I'm in conhoots with a higher power
Mind on money mi-mi-mind on my money yo
Mind on my money mi-mi-mind (yo ho rai que quo)
Mind on money aye, mind on my money babe
How does this money taste? Whining on money's face
You see the signs and the teachings
If you ain't know well this is grinding season
Now and go get your gangs signs, throw it up!
Where all my niggas on them bikes? Throw it up
We don't care what you say, we ain't going away
My niggas bring the heat, it's not a summer day
So mind on my motherfuckin' money, my mind on my motherfuckin' money.

(Speakin: Busta Rhymes)
Ayo I speak foreign languages and shit but the language I speak is that money language (laughs) flipmode bitch
Brinx I like how we do the brinx truck job on these niggas homey
Time after time again I like niggas and remind niggas how I hold out on motherfuckers

Niggas out here frontin' about they bread you can't trust it niggas my money so Stupid call me warren Busta buss nigga
Glad it ain't a toss and everything about me butters I've been counting money so Long I see dollar signs and different colors
My money is smear and smothered your money you hear me brother
Been about that bread like I was broke or still in the gutter
And in case you ain't know there will be no replacement and them bags of arab Money I got stashed in the basement face it
When ever I shine I glisten and when ever I talk you listen ain't no money gettin' Made in these street without my permission I keeps it drug infested my money is Well connected it's to the point my [? ] is well respected you need to check my Method I promise you I be the wrong nigga that's comes to my money that you ever Want to mess with grind like missionary labor holding indigutary paper you already Know my team is filled with [? ] ears we made you I don't give a fuck about your Stipulation
Type of bread appropriate for every situation
You can tell by the jewellery sittin' on my collar from the bread to the crib I know all about the dollar.


Holiday, Holiday, slow that shit DOWN!
C'mon now, they done... they know I do it
They know when I do it it get done
Two sticks in my bun, but, but first of all
When I say two sticks in my bun, I mean
That when I put a bun in my hair
Like when I put my hair in a ponytail
And I wrap my hair in a bun
I put two Chinese sticks in my bun with the Chinese bang
Cause y'all y'all minds is in the gutter
That's what two sticks in my bun mean, okay?
But Holiday you already know, y'knahmsayin?
They heard that hard spittin', they heard that fast shit
NOWWWW, y'know, you gotta slow it down for them y'know
Umm, they wanna hear me sing
Y'know behind every bad bitch there's a really sweet girly, girl
There's a really sweet, Harajuku Barbie, and umm
Now it's time for them to hear me [inhales]
Get all nice and soft and, moist
I I mean, I'm-I'm sorry I didn't mean, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, this is the portion of the tape where
I just wanna be more, y'know, delicate and... wet
[SPLASH] I'm I'm, I'm so, I I, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, that y'know, Holiday just slow it down daddy!


Lyrics to Slumber Party:
(Gucci Mane)
Banana boat full of blow,
Banana clip to cut ya throat,
Banana dro come take a smoke,
Banana diamonds yellow stone,
Heavy snow that berry blow,
That cherry coke got stupid dough,
Plenty mo you think I booked a
Hundred, shows I'm selling dope
I'm into wishin', rolling, kushin'
Sippin' lean and burnin' piff, you
Gotta fifth I gotta pint you
Took a shot I took a sip, I plead
The 5th ain't saying shit go get
My lawyer get him quick spent 80
Grand to beat a case I whipped it
Like my purple whip. I caught a
Hit like sosa did them killas
Blast ya house ya monkey, I got
So much jewelry on me still you
Can't take nothing from me. hook
It up I cook it up and get some
Head while rolling blunts. water
Paint, water stain I'm lookin'
Down she lookin' up, beamer truck
I rim it up spent 80 thou (400
Stones), she suck a dick while
Rollin' blunt she keep the boss
Man bustin' nuts. I get it off she
Get it up me and her both can't
Get enough me in the go I'm in
The go so tryna beat that pussy up.

Welcome to my private party
More hoes than a bachelor party
Smokin', drankin', freakin', shit can turn into a
Slumber part
You can't meet my mama, uh-uh, but here go my number, shawty
Number shawty
When you feelin' freaky, mama, we could have a
Slumber party
(A slumber party mama have a slumber party)
(You can't meet my mama uh-uh but here go my
Number shawty)
(When you feelin' freaky mama we can have a
Slumber party)
(We can have a slumber party x2)

(Gucci Mane)
Her negligees are burberry
Her lingerie came very straight
Her oral sex is very wet, my sex so great she
Gainin' weight
I cook a cake she cook a steak, we three astates
You section 8
Stay out her face she hardly date she fuckin'
Gucci shawty DAMN
Everday's a ballin' day just yesterday we bought a
Lake tomorrow
Bought us two camaros a 08 and a 68. we
Trappin' fast with
Stupid cash so rap on with yo stupid as it's
Gucci Mane no stupid ass I keep on making
Stupid cash

Welcome to my private party
More hoes than a bachelor party
Smokin', drankin', freakin', shit can turn into a
Slumber part
You can't meet my mama, uh-uh, but here go my number, shawty
Number shawty
When you feelin' freaky, mama, we could have a
Slumber party
(A slumber party mama have a slumber party)
(You can't meet my mama uh-uh but here go my
Number shawty)
(When you feelin' freaky mama we can have a
Slumber party)
(We can have a slumber party x2)

(Nicki Minaj)
Got that super soaker pussy pop like cola coca plus it's tighter than a choka
Got 'em smilin' like the joker got that na-na-na-na-na-na-na little mermaid on my Linen when your momma sleepin' you can call me and get all up in it
Bank rolls gimme all them pretty furs cause my pussy game cold when he hit it
He say bur he say bur bur bur bur bur I'mma I'mma marry her and he play with that pur (pearl)
Like he strungin' his guitar that's me I am Minaj I am N-N-Nicki Minaj and if you want a
Menage keep a couple pretty boards look head game busy busy make a nigga dizzy dizzy
Bitch I'm at that slumber party sippin' on that frizzy chrissy


Gucci Mane:
Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah
Yyyeeeeeeeeaaaaaaa
Ah ah ah Gucci ah

(Verse: Gucci Mane)
I gotta shoppin' problem
She gotta shoppin' problem
I'm a compulsive shopper
So I'm a cop her prada
I'm a ice her outta
Make ya talk about her
She got this thang about her
Yeah she a sexy walker

We shoppin' in Morocco
I took her to Dubai
Lil mama stupid fly
So tell me watcha like
Cause girls I like to buy
My money stupid fat
His money on a diet
Ten stacks to keep her quiet
I make her call me daddy
Yeah there go daddy baby
And she loves daddy cause
Daddy gone keep them hatin'
Yeah they hatin' baby
They wanna trade places
I call her sexy lady
She call me Gucci baby

She gotta Fendi fetish
She gotta shoppin' problem
That girls a shopaholic
She only mess with ballers
She gotta Gucci fetish
She gotta Louie problem
She gotta shoppin' problem
That girl's a shopaholic

(Verse: Nicki Minaj)
Yo I'm a need a couple of dem benzess...
I be out in China spendin' yens-eses
Gucci on my lenses-eses
My leather so sensitive
Scratch my 9 o' clock
I wanna shop make ya tentative
Dilly dilly d look at all these hoochies
I be on the beach in Emilio Pucci
I'm a I'm the best I'm the best ask Khaled
Sorry lil' daddy that cards not valid
I need a limited black card, like I'm racist
With them real big faces
Louis Vuitton cases
Hoes in the hood say Nicki Minaj booshie...
I do it b.I.g. so I keep a couple coogies, hoes


Yo, SB. I think it's my time...
You know why? My tears have dried
And I know that no weapon formed
Against me will prosper. And I truly
Believe that my haters are my motivators
Young Money

If you could you would get rid of me
Fuck you gone do when a bitch try to go hard?
Bet I won't let you get to me (to me)
You should already figure I'ma go hard
If you was as real as me you would never
Let another girl sit in your throne
I done flipped the trunk on her
They screamin', "Nicki leave me alone!"
I am, I'm still the one to beat
Ain't in a rush from these streets
I am the streets
I am gettin' it in until the end
I gotta go, go, go, go hard!

Carter called, lemme get the car key
You don't want it with the Harajuku Barbie
Keep a marquis, everything sparkly (man down!)
Hit 'em on a walkie-talkie
Hit em, hit 'em knock-knock, tell 'em let me in
My name ring bells bitch buzz me in
And I only stop for pedestrians
Or a real real bad lesbian
Hit 'em with the Mac, hit 'em with the Tec 9
Hit 'em with the Ruger by the intersex line
Hit 'em with a tommy so my niggas call me Kimmy and I always the jammy in the Trunka of the lamby
Put my whole burrough on my back and I'm gooda
I don't wanna hear what you would, what you coulda
I represent all the girls that stood up
Used to drink water with a little bit of sugar
Now I'm in the gym with my squats and my sit-ups
Doin' the scissor-leg on the mat with my foot up
Young black pin-up, all of my bitches did up
Now I'm tellin' LA Reid to step his bid up
And I'm tellin' President Carter he picked a winner
Bitches like Nelly and Kelly got a dilemma
These birds all fly south in the winter
Fuck I look like chompin' on a chicken dinner?
You can hate me, but why knock my hustle?
I'ma be a queen no matter how they shuffle
Skirts with the ruffle, Louis on the duffle
I'm a bad bitch no muzzle (no muzzle)
Bitches is softer than Al Dente, cut from a different kenta
Tell 'em I'm the ninja, Weezy is my sensei
So I call him splinter, faster than a sprinter
Gimme my chopsticks, I'll have the rap bitches for dinner
This is for my gentlemen in button-ups and khakis
This is for my nigga 7-up in Castaki
This is for my niggas whellying them Kawasakis
Shout out to the back-east, South Ishakis (?)
This is to my fans, unless I'm feeling kinda cocky
Winter Wonderland is on my hand, it's kinda rocky
I am Nicki, Minaj or Lewinsky
Pumps on the clutch, right hand on the six-speed
Write my own raps I gotta go, I gotta get me (gotta get me)

If you could you would get rid of me
Fuck you gone do when a bitch try to go hard?
Bet I won't let you get to me (to me)
You should already figure I'm a go hard
If you was as real as me, you would never
Let another girl sit in yo throne
I done flipped the trunk on her
They screamin', "Nicki leave me alone!"
I am, I will, I gots to win
I'm still lookin' around for my
Com-pe-tition. I am gettin' it in until the end
I gotta go, go, go, go hard!

Lil Wayne:
From slap-and-cry you start to die, so I must go harder
Gotta make these bitches know me just like vibe and no water
Better yet, like Bubba, no shrimp. but he don't say shit
When the gun on his lip, and I don't say shit put the gun
On my hip. so I don't say shit but the gun on my hip
If you don't wanna drown don't come on my ship
Check out how them bitches just run on my dick
And me, I'm that just a summa bitch
I still got that bitch cum on my lips
It yee ain't got money, don't come on my strip
And if ya got money, don't cover my strip
I wear that metal, no Olympic, but I can still
Make you tumble and flip
You fuckin' with me if you fuckin' with Nick
It ain't fuckin' with me it ain't fuckin' with Nick
Your girlfriend, her decision is split
'Cause she wanna fuck me and she wanna fuck Nick
They wonder if he be fuckin' Nick, as long as she be fuckin' rich
That's why I keep my Le Bitch (?) cause, I swear y'all's a fuckin' trip
Young Money Dungeon, bitch. my swagger just punch a bitch
And I shoot like I'm from over-seas, so call my gun, "Gunovich"
Weezy F. Baby and the "F" is for a bunch of shit
Red drank, blue pill, white dust
Yes I love my country bitch

Wish you could get rid of Young Money
Fuck you gone do when a bitch try to go hard?
Bet I won't let you get to me (to me)
You should already figure I'm a go hard
If you was as real as me you would never
Let another girl sit in your throne
I done flipped the trunk on her
They screamin', "Nicki leave me alone!"
I am, I will, I gots to win
I'm still lookin' around for my
Com-pe-tition. I am gettin' it in until the end
I gotta go, go, go, go hard!


Holiday, Holiday, slow that shit DOWN!
C'mon now, they done... they know I do it
They know when I do it it get done
Two sticks in my bun, but, but first of all
When I say two sticks in my bun, I mean
That when I put a bun in my hair
Like when I put my hair in a ponytail
And I wrap my hair in a bun
I put two Chinese sticks in my bun with the Chinese bang
Cause y'all y'all minds is in the gutter
That's what two sticks in my bun mean, okay?
But Holiday you already know, y'knahmsayin?
They heard that hard spittin', they heard that fast shit
NOWWWW, y'know, you gotta slow it down for them y'know
Umm, they wanna hear me sing
Y'know behind every bad bitch there's a really sweet girly, girl
There's a really sweet, Harajuku Barbie, and umm
Now it's time for them to hear me [inhales]
Get all nice and soft and, moist
I I mean, I'm-I'm sorry I didn't mean, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, this is the portion of the tape where
I just wanna be more, y'know, delicate and... wet
[SPLASH] I'm I'm, I'm so, I I, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, that y'know, Holiday just slow it down daddy!


Baby You My Everything
You're All I Ever Wonted
We Can Do It Real Big
Bigger Then You Ever Done It
You Be Up On Everything
The Other Hoes Ain't Never On It
I Want This Forever, I Swea
I Can Spent Whatever On It
Cause She Holds Me Down
Everytime I Hit Her Up
When I Get It Right I Promise We Gonna Live It Up
She Makes Me Beg For It Till She Gives It Up
Then I Say The Same Thing Every Single Time I Say

You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
Your The Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
I Said Your The Best I Eva Had

Drake
You Know You Got Your Own Maid
Call Me When It's Going There
Put That Key Under The Mat
And You Know I Be Over There
(Yup!)
I Be Over There
Shawty I Be Over There
I Be Hitting All The Spots That
You Didn't Even Know Was There
(Hahah)
You Don't Even Have To Ask Twice
You Could Have My Heart
Or We Can Share It
Like The Last Slice
Always Felt That You
So A Custom To The Fast Life
Having A Nigga Thinking
That He Met You In The Past Life
Sweat Pants, Hair Tie,
Chilling With No Make On
That's When Your The Prettiest
I Hope You Don't Take It Wrong
You Don't Even Trip
When Friends Say
You Ain't Bringing Drake Along
You Know That
I Been Working I Be There
Soon As I Make It Hooome
And She Patient In My Waiting Room
Never Pay Attention To
The Roomers And What They Assumed
And Till Them Girls Proofed It
I'm The One To Never Get Confused With

Baby You My Everything
You're All I Ever Wonted
We Can Do It Real Big
Bigger Then You Ever Done It
You Be Up On Everything
The Other Hoes Ain't Never On It
I Want This Forever, I Swea
I Can Spent Whatever On It
Cause She Holds Me Down
Everytime I Hit Her Up
When I Get It Right I Promise We Gonna Live It Up
She Makes Me Beg For It Till She Gives It Up
Then I Say The Same Thing Every Single Time I Say

You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
Your The Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
I Said Your The Best I Eva Had

Nicki Minaj
Ayo You're The Only One
That See The Real Nicki
I Can Show You Chill Nicki
Cause Of How You Deal With Me
And They Knock My Blocks Down
You Come And You build With Me
Even Though You Real Busy
He's The Fucking Real Drizzy
It's So Amazing, I Figure Out
This World Is Ours for the takinq
I Figure Out that When I go out
And Those People Scream
That Some Of Theme are living vicariously threw me
That's Why I Put That "S" On My Chest
And I'm Gone But On A Other Note
Let's Have Sexs In My Dorm
And I'm a Make You Beg
Causing You Look Pretty When You Begging
So Meet Me At The Campus
I Be there Around 11
So Let Me Put My Books Down
Exuse Me If I Look Down
Guess I'm a Little Nervous
When I'm At Your Service
Look At What You Took Downnnnnnnnnnn

Nicki Minaj
Baby You My Everything
You All I Ever Wanted
We Can Do It Real Big
Bigger Than You Ever Done It
You Be Up On Everything
Other Niggas Never On It
I Want This Forever
I Swea I Could Spent Whatever On It
'Cause I Could Hold You Down
Everytime You Hit Me Up
When I Get Right Around It
Tell Me We Gonna Live It Up
I Make You Beg For It
Until I Give It Up
You Say The Samething
Every Single Time

You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
Your The Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
I Said Your The Best I Eva Had

Sex love pain baby I be on that tank shit
Buzz so big I could probly sell a blank disc
When my album drop bitches will buy it for the picture
And niggas will buy it to and claim they got it for they sister
Magazine paper girl but money ain't the issue
They bring dinner to my room and ask me to initial
She call me the referee
'Cause I be so official
Ma shirt ain't got no stripes but I can make ya pussy whistlee
Like the Andy Grifith theme song
And who told you to put them jeans on?
Double cup love
You the one I lean on
Feelin' for a fix then you should really get ya fiend on
Yeah... just know ma condo is the crack spot
Every single show she out there reppin like a mascot
Get it from the back
And make ya fuckin' bra strap pop
All up in ya slot until the nigga hit the jackpot (I'm sayin')

Baby you ma everythin', you all I eva wanted
We can do it real big
Bigga den you eva done it
You be up on everythin'
Other hoes ain't eva on it
I want this foreva I swear I can spend wateva on it
'Cause she hold me down every time I hit her up
When I get right I promise that we gon live it up
She make me beg for it till she give it up
And I say the same thing every single time

You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
You The Fucking Best
Your The Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
Best I Eva Had
I Said Your The Best I Eva Had

spoken:
Ah. ah yeah see this the typa joint you gotta dedicate to somebody
Jus make sure they that special somebody
Young money yeah yeah


We like them boys with them rubber band bands
He move weight keep a couple gram grams
So (so so so) where your money put it in your hand hands
Now (now now now) make it flip make it do a handstand [x2]

Do a handstand can you do a hand stand flip that
Money make it do a handstand, I can make it
Scream like a summer jam fan where are my bands
Where my rubber band man's

(Verse 1: Nicki Minaj)
It's official bang your pistols play your money it's funny
I mean it tickles. I need a D-boy I need a president and
If your spending them stacks I need some evidence
Then you can bring out all them cars that they rap bout
Then I'm a let you eat it like I put the snacks out, don't say
You can't say you can say you can can flip that money
Flip it like a handstand

Do a handstand can you do a handstand flip that money
Make it do a handstand, I can make it scream like a summer jam fan
Where are my bands where my rubber band man's

(Verse 2: Shannell)
He's a banker by nature he'll call and slick of the debt that
You owe and thank ya, he'll switch the toys out never the
Same route, but niggas acting like they ain't about to pay out
Taking me out just to ask how my day went
Tryna show me I'm his number one investment
He know what I like, stay on your job type
I'll pop if you can pop like you got rubber bands we like

Do a handstand can you do a hand stand flip that
Money make it do a handstand, I can make it
Scream like a summer jam fan where are my bands
Where my rubber band man's

(Verse 3: Nicki Minaj and Shannell)
'Cause we like them bad boys and bad cars
Them hood rich dope boys and trap stars [x2]

(Verse 4: Shannell)
See I'm a rubber lover so wrap it and I'll hug ya
Then we can stick together like them dollars
Out the printer. bad boys I catch call me
Undercover
Street grindin' cold cut motherfucker

(Verse 5: Nicki Minaj)
Yo yo yo he flip like handstand he cookin' them 10 grams
Give him the grand slam in back of the phan dam,
I mean the phantom. I can't stand bums
Somethin' bout his money make a nigga hands me
Cuff cuff throw ya badge on me
Guaranteed you can't puff puff pass on me
We can crush crush
You can spend your stach on me
'Cause I know you want to smash it like a crash dummy

Do a handstand can you do a hand stand flip that
Money make it do a handstand, I can make it
Scream like a summer jam fan where are my bands
Where my rubber band man's


Hear the Devil callin',
I can hear em,
It's like I get chills down my spine when I'm near him,
Mad, I'm a tad too bad, I don't fear him,
I don't need the preachers,
I'm the high priestess.
Everywhere I go, I get "Hi, nice to meet you.",
Bxtches know I beast this,
I'm the fashionistist.
And they know I stay around the white like a groom,
Look up in the sky, I see somebody on a broom.
I think I'm gettin' hi-high-hi-high on my own supply,
Yellin' "Rasta, all right! " when I'm ridin' by,
See I used to be the wife of a king,
Back when I was smugglin' them things in the bing.
Now that I'm a boss bxtch,
It's a win-win,
Come to Mr. Chow's or meet me in Chin-Chin,
Now I get'cha ching and my name bells ring -
Oops, I mean my name ring bells, ding ding.

I'm in Jamaica with them keys under palm trees,
The leprachaun sees what my palm reads.
And if my heart seize, please call my aunties,
I think them girls tellin', I hear them boys yellin' [x2]

Get down, get down, get down down,
Get d- get down, get down, get down down,
Get down, get down, get down down,
Get down, get down on the ground,
Get down, get down on the ground.

Man, fxck a P0,
And fxck a C0,
'Bout to set it off like Cleo,
Mad they done tapped my trio,
Begged my skio,
Heard the bxtch lyin' like Leo.
Anyway, I'm the ninja,
Kawasaki blazin',
In a kimono, "Konichiwa" to the Asians.
I kick, kick, kick it like I'm Bruce Lee's son,
So all of that yellin' in the street soon done.
'Cause if I take my ski mask off, then I'm dumbin',
The young Chaka Khan, yes - I am every woman.
And I am 'bout that coke, not what'cha put the rum in,
Say a little prayer, tell the Lord that I'm comin' (comin')

I'm in Jamaica with them keys under palm trees,
The leprachaun sees what my palm reads.
And if my heart seize, please call my auntie,
I think them girls tellin', I hear them boys yellin' [x2]

Can you hear the yellin'?
Comin' for me, comin' for me-e-e-e.
Comin' for me, comin' for me, comin' for me.


Holiday Season, Aye!

(Holiday Season ... Trapaholics)

Na I'ma dime, You a nickelette
Lightskinneded pigament
Write my own shit y'all copyrighting infringement
I eat these rap bitches somebody give me a dentiment
Pussy make 'em tattoo my name upon his ligaments

Fuck wrong with them my nerves they keep tweaking
Tell 'em I'm the chief I'm runnin' with Mohegans
Tell 'em this is church and tell 'em I am the deacon
Tell 'em that I'm black, Chinese, and butter pecan

Pull up in the Range I'm givin' 'em mo' reasons (mo reasons)
Hit up Lil Wayne boo I'm in the four seasons (four seasons)
Tell Gudda, Mack, and Kid Kid I'm here
I'm colder than a cough I'm wetter than swimwear

Got all these lil bitches g-gettin' the pink heer (hair)
I'm pretty and I'm fly I'm up in a pink lear
I needed an assistant I got me a pink queer
Decorated his office with flowers and pink cheers (chairs)
Cheers, Cheers!

Nicki Minaj, Nicki Lewinsky the Mistress
Where the fuck is the President?! Haha Young Money!


(Verse: Gucci Mane)
Hot dammit it's a miracle,
Please adjust the temperature
I switched up the interior in my European 50
Damn Gucci lyrical
Nah I ain't lyrical but my bracelet is crazy but my necklace is a miracle
Blacker than Nigeria,
With brand new material
Counting a quarter million while I'm pouring a bowl of cereal
Fresher than your ever were richer than a year ago with
Three dollars a skittle but it's eight hundred a cheerio
I was error and rude same color as a prune yellow
Chain look like the moon and my old school is maroon
Roon hearing ert-ert when it skert 26's on the skirt's
And a bird with a flirt
You can tirt I got twerk I keep work
In my birds I got bird I got bricks
I got pounds of that herbs (yeah)
Use to be my favorite word
Now my ice game is superb so them hoes can suck my dick

(Chorus: Nicki Minaj)
Y'all be tryin' hard (but it's easy), tightin' up on yo job ('cause it's easy)
I'm Nicki Minaj (so be easy), Gucci Mane and Rocko (please believe it)
Y'all be tryin' hard (but it's easy), tightin' up on yo job ('cause it's easy)
I'm Nicki Minaj (so be easy), Gucci Mane and Rocko (please believe it)

(Verse: Nicki Minaj)
Zoom boom I'm 5'4 double R zoom zoom
I don't give a fuck about ya looney tune
Goons yellin' poon, poon when you're really coon coon
I eat these rap bitches no fork no spoon
I'm Nicki I been Nicki I'm picky
I stay around the six like that little mouse mickey
Ask Rocko ask Gucci, ask Gucci, Gucci bandana
I'm a star I'm the black Hannah Montana
I'm such a girl, I'm such a girly girl
I'm sippin' on my milkshake with this swirly swirl
Excuse me mister put some cheeries in my cups
I take my shirt off and watch the boys go nuts
Boys goes nuts boys-boys goes nuts
All the dope boys all the boys wanna fuck
My niqqa S Beezy keep my wrist breezy
Why would I go hard when this shit is so easy

(Chorus: Nicki Minaj)
Y'all be tryin' hard (but it's easy), tightin' up on yo job ('cause it's easy)
I'm Nicki Minaj (so be easy), Gucci Mane and Rocko (please believe it)
Y'all be tryin' hard (but it's easy), tightin' up on yo job ('cause it's easy)
I'm Nicki Minaj (so be easy), Gucci Mane and Rocko (please believe it)


Where my straitjacket at... I'm a psycho
Where that white blow, why they copy my flow
If it's not young money, it's a typo
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o

We don't t-t-talk, talk 2 five-o
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o
If it's not Young Money, it's a typo
There them lights go we don't talk to five-o

Jae Millz:
Mister officer, mister officer
I'm sorry I don't wanna take a walk with ya
Matta fact, I ain't tryna talk 2 ya
We ain't got no business, so what we talkn for
It ain't no need to bring me in for no interrogation
Cause about that boy who just got shot, I gots no information
These broke ass snitch niggas still gram shaving?
At the precinct writing statements on which your house is the station (damn)
Not I, tattle tellin' is for homos
Besides, that's the number 1 Young Money no no
Police, we don't chat with them
We ain't got no wrap for them
You in the cop car point niggas out from the back of them (There he go)
Back seat informer, your papi shoulda warned ya
You even tell PoPo I'm black, and yous a fuckin' goner
Yeah you get high, but I get higher
Manyana, I just might go to the half way house and ask your supervisor

Where my straitjacket at... I'm a psycho
Where that white blow, why they copy my flow
If it's not Young Money, it's a typo
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o

We don't t-t-talk, talk 2 five-o
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o
If it's not young money, it's a typo
There them lights go we don't talk to five-o


Nicki Minaj:
Yo... 4, 3, 2
Cocka doodle do
I was out in Africa, Shaka Zulu crew
Ho ho ho, red stockings too
Coming down the chimney, your chopped and screwed
It's me bitches, eff you snitches, gimme the heebie jeebies
So excuse my twitches (excuse me)
Lemme get that brewski, niggas know them bitches can't do it like I dooski
I just pull up, chuck the deuce in some blue denim, and I just heard he running with the lieutenant
I'm the mistress, I be in the District of Columbia
Yes uh huh, Washington
Betta ask around, 'cause I'm what's popping-ton
I'm who they think about, playin' with they pee pee
Gotta count sheep because I'm never sleepy
Guess I'm the chief, you can find me in my teepee... BITCHES!

Where my straitjacket at... I'm a psycho
Where that white blow, why they copy my flow
If it's not Young Money, it's a typo
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o

We don't t-t-talk, talk 2 five-o
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o
If it's not young money, it's a typo
There them lights go we don't talk to five-o

Gudda Gudda:
Young Money cycle, straitjacket on me
Break a nigga jaw if he turn too informant
I bring you to ya door step, loose slips, sank ships nigga
So I'm a bring you to the bottom of the ocean [uh chuuch]
I hear you preachin' like a fuckin' reverend
Should killed you in the first place... no second guessin'
Coulda killed 'em with the first and the second weapon
DJ Unk 'em with the hand, I two-step and deck 'em
Then I grab the choppa, blue flame Houston wreck 'em
Kick a snitch head through a goal like David Beckham
Make way, respect 'em
I could AK attack 'em
You looking at a gangster in his essence
Now bitch bow down when a gangster in your presence
'Cause I'm God's gift like a present
For 1 don't try me I could give you two lessons you peasants get murdered if you do test 'em
Gudda Gudda bitch!

Where my straitjacket at... I'm a psycho
Where that white blow, why they copy my flow
If it's not Young Money, it's a typo
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o

We don't t-t-talk, talk 2 five-o
There them lights go, we don't talk to five-o
If it's not young money, it's a typo
There them lights go we don't talk to five-o


Holiday, Holiday, slow that shit DOWN!
C'mon now, they done... they know I do it
They know when I do it it get done
Two sticks in my bun, but, but first of all
When I say two sticks in my bun, I mean
That when I put a bun in my hair
Like when I put my hair in a ponytail
And I wrap my hair in a bun
I put two Chinese sticks in my bun with the Chinese bang
Cause y'all y'all minds is in the gutter
That's what two sticks in my bun mean, okay?
But Holiday you already know, y'knahmsayin?
They heard that hard spittin', they heard that fast shit
NOWWWW, y'know, you gotta slow it down for them y'know
Umm, they wanna hear me sing
Y'know behind every bad bitch there's a really sweet girly, girl
There's a really sweet, Harajuku Barbie, and umm
Now it's time for them to hear me [inhales]
Get all nice and soft and, moist
I I mean, I'm-I'm sorry I didn't mean, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, this is the portion of the tape where
I just wanna be more, y'know, delicate and... wet
[SPLASH] I'm I'm, I'm so, I I, I didn't mean to say that
I meant, that y'know, Holiday just slow it down daddy!


Envy
All they do is envy
Don't they know what's in me
Don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that envy
Why would dey offend me
Y dey go against me don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that ass

Swingin' fo sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo sw-swingin' fo'
Sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' [x2]

Now every club promoter wanna bid like auctions
'Cause I pack shows sells ticks like Bostin
Pat ya back hoe why the fuck they coughin'
Oh I had 'em sick better get that coffin
I say coffin you can say casket
There so trash but where's the waste basket
Where's my hat and where's my straitjacket
Yup they jackin' back to maybackin
Everything I do bitches wanna do it too
I guess, guess you just skip to my loo
I just came through I flew to St. Lou
Back to kill you they blew like HQ
Why is it that they make Nicki a target
Just 'cause this lil' piggy went to the market
Market except they marketed sex
My market with the ex they talkin' them checks now

Envy
All they do is envy
Don't they know what's in me
Don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that envy
Why would they offend me
Why they go against me don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that ass

Swingin' fo sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo sw-swingin' fo'
Sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' [x2]

Yo, why did you envy? Why you go against me?
When I got trendy, why you ain't commend me?
Why when I needed it why you couldn't lend me?
Why you was secretive? frontin' like you friendly
Why did you fear that? held my career back
Kick it like air max I don't wanna hear that
But now I see, see, see, see all ya run down
Nigga better have my money by sun down
Cause now when I come through I'm stlyin' on em
It's like I got hotter then islands on em
They say she got colder than igloos. did she?
I'm in a GT she in a Mitsubishi
Just left Mr. Miyagi tell that bitch jump if that bitch feel froggy
'Cause I got one leg up in the middle of the ring
And that bitch better duck when the bell go DING!

Envy
All they do is envy
Don't they know what's in me
Don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that envy
Why would they offend me
Why they go against me don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that ass

Swingin' fo' sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' sw-swingin' fo'
Sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' [x2]

I'm me don't ya like watcha see
Won't you get like me
Cause ya thought that I would die but I'm fine
I'm me don't ya like watcha see
Won't you get like me
Cause ya thought that I would die but I'm fine

Ooh [x3]

Envy
All they do is envy
Don't they know what's in me
Don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that envy
Why would they offend me
Why they go against me don't they know I'm comin' back swingin' for that ass

Swingin' fo' sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' sw-swingin' fo'
Sw-sw-sw-swingin' fo' [x2]


I push, p-p-push it, I p-p-push it like I'm in labor
And he'll t-t-teach me to, teach me love my neighbor
Just w-w-wait up, I'm processin' all the data
Processin' all the data, p-p-processin' all the haters
You was writin' disses, I was takin' pictures
Signin' autographs for all of my bad bitches
And in the nic of time it just dawned on
I am Nicki Minaj and it's all on me
But hey, maybe I'll never win
Maybe I'm settlin'
Can't let the devil in, I'm a comic book heroin
But when the wind blows, I'm so Marilyn
Write down, take a pictures, bitches e-mail that
I came to save a thing called female rap
But I hope my ninja powers
Don't fuck around and offend you cowards
You mad at me 'cause you think I got it easy
If we was in the second grade then you would tease me
Ya see, you still a lil snotty nose hood rat
I love Nicki scribbled all over you book bag
I love you too, I just wish your mother would've hugged you too
You know Nicki love the kids
Yellow brick road lookin' for the Wiz
But when it rains, it pours for real
Def Jam said I'm no Lauryn Hill

Can't rap and sing on the same CD
The public won't get it, they got A.D.D.
See Nicki, follow the rules
Go and say your prayers and get ready for school
(Yeah follow the rules, go and say my prayers and get ready for school)

Dear God, I am only what you made me
And I appreciate everything that you gave me
But like, I don't wanna do it no more
Sort of lost sight of what I'm doin' it for
Thought that I was doin' somethin' good for the game
Until they all started throwin' dirt on my name
Tell Debbie, I really, really tried
That I said I'm sorry, but I had to say goodbye
Tell Fendi, I'll never forget him
And please tell Wayne I'll always be indebted
(I'll never forget it, please tell Wayne I'll always be indebted)

AYYYYYY! Can anybody hear me?
AYYYYYY! Can anybody hear me?
AYYYYYY! Can anybody hear me?
AYYYYYY! Can anybody hear me?


Yeah yeah uh huh
She said FUCK FENDI, but I think she was playin'
I heard she move dem thangs
I think she fuckin' Wayne
She call herself Lewinsky, that mean she give him brain
She trynna be like Lil' Kim, her picture looks tha same
Why she ain't signed with G-Unit, she frum Queens right?
And what's her nationality, she Chinese right?
I mean she OK, but she ain't ALL DAT
She ain't da next bitch, tell dat bitch fall back!
See I'm a hater, I go hard... listen let's begin
You know her last name Minaj, she a lesbian
And she ain't neva comin' out, look at currency
But every time she do a interview you know I run to see
She get me so sick it make me vomit
That's why I spend my time online leaving comments
And you know that I got some more haters with me
Might hit up thisis50... MTV... hit up BET
Tell 'em pretty pretty please don't play Nicki

Still I rise
Still I fight
Still I might crack a smile
Keep my eyes on da prize, see my haters tell 'em HI!
One day you'll remember dis
One day wen we reminisce
Nothing I do ever is, good enough for music biz

For you, for you

Bitches is like crabs in a bucket
You see a bad bitch gettin' shine, you should love it
Cause every time a door opens for me that means you
Just gotta a betta opportunity to do you
They don't understand these labels look at numbers is statistics
I lose, you lose, mines just legastic
Any way, real bitches listen when I'm speakin'
'Cause if Nicki win, then all of y'all gettin' meetins (kyea)
Ask LA Reid, ask Jay
Then hit up Universal, see what Sylvia Rhone say
Ask Craig Common, you can ask Chris
Lady when you're done, just salute a bad bitch
Only underground bitch around that's duckin' the paparazzi
In and outta town, be swirvin the mazeratzi
Stay around da white like a Nazi
Pussy p-p-poppin' on my poppers so the cops see... BITCHES!

Still I rise
Still I fight
Still I mite crack a smile
Keep my eyes on the prize, see my haters tell 'em HI!
One day you'll remember dis
One day wen we reminisce
Nothin' I do ever is, good enough for music biz


(Nicki Minaj) 

I am not Jasmine, I'm Aladdin 
So far ahead, these bums is laggin' 
See me in that new thing, bums is gaggin' 
I'm startin' to feel like a dungeon dragon 
Raah, raah, like a dungeon dragon 
I'm startin' to feel like a dungeon dragon 
Look at my show footage, how these girls be spazzin' 
So fuck I look like gettin' back to a has-been? 
Yeah, I said it, has-been 
Hang it up, flatscreen 
(Haha) Plasma 
Hey Nicki, hey Nicki, asthma 
I got the pumps, it ain't got medicine 
I got bars, Xenocin 
I'm a bad bitch, I'm a cunt 
And I'll kick that hoe, punt 
Forced trauma, blunt 
You play the back, bitch, I'm in the front 
You need a job, this ain't cuttin' it 
Nicki Minaj is who you ain't fuckin' with 
You li'l brag a lot, I beat you with a pad-a-lock 
I am a movie, camera block 
You outta work, I know it's tough 
But enough is enough 

I feel Pretty (3x) 
And witty 
And Gay
And I pity Any girl who isent me tonight 

(Eminem) 

I ain't into S&amp;M, but my whip's off the chain 
A little drop of candy paint drips off the frame 
Twisted-ass mind, got a pretzel for a brain 
An eraser for a head, fuckin' pencil for a frame 
You don't like it then peel off, bitch 
Every last woman on Earth I'll kill off, and I still wouldn't fuck you, slut 
So wipe the smile on your grill off, I swear to God I'll piss a Happy Meal off 
Get the wheels turnin', spin, and wheel off 
Snap the axel in half, bust the tie-rod 
Quit hollerin' "Why, God?" He ain't got shit to do with it 
Bygones'll never be bygones, so won't be finished swallowin' my wad 
I ain't finished blowin' it, nice bra 
Hope it'll fit a tough titty, bitch 
Life's hard, I swear to God, life is a dumb blonde white broad 
With fake tits and a bad dye job 
Who just spit in my fuckin' face and called me a fuckin' tightwad 
So finally I broke down and bought her an iPod 
And caught her stealin' my music, so I tied her arms and legs to the bed 
Set up the camera and pissed twice on her 
Look, two pees and a tripod! 
The moral to the story is, life's treatin' you like dry sod? 
Kick it back in its face, my God 
It's Shady and Nicki Minaj, you might find the sight quite odd 
But don't ask why, bitch (Ask why not) 

I feel uglyx3

Slut don't touch me or hug me 
I'm mad And I pity Any girl who gets with me tonight 

(Nicki Minaj) 

You wanna sleep on me? Overnight? 
I'm the motherfuckin' boss, overwrite 
And when I pull up, vroom, motorbike 
Now all my ***** gettin' bucked, overbite 
I see them dusty-ass Filas, Levi's 
Raggedy-ass, holes in your knee-highs 
I call the play, now do you see why? 
These bitches callin' me Manning, Eli 
I-I-I-I hear them mumblin', I hear the cacklin' 
I got 'em scared, shook, panickin' 
Overseas, church, Vatican 
You at a stand, still, mannequin 

(Eminem) 

All you li'l faggots can suck it 
No home, but I'ma stick it to 'em like refrigerator magnets 
And I'm crooked enough to make straitjackets bend 
Yeah, look who's back again, bitch, keep actin' as if 
You have the same passion that I have 
Yeah, right, still hungry, my ass 
You assdicks had gastric bypass 
Ain't hot enough to set fire to dry grass 
And 'bout as violent as hair on eyelids (Eyelash!) 
Go take a flyin' leap of faith off a fuckin' balcony 
'Fore I shove a falcon wing up your fly ass 
You know what time it is, so why ask? 
When Shady and Nicki's worlds class 
It's (high class) meets (white trash) 

I feel Pretty (3x) 
And witty 
And Gay 
And I pity Any girl who isent me tonight


Shout out to S B the hype man
And Joe the Boss and Bimi, and umm
My darling big sister Monie Love
Umm shouts out to my entertainment laywers and my accountants
Umm shout out to Southside, Jamaica, Queens
New York City, everybody that shows me lots of love
In Philly and Connecticut and Rhode Island and y'know
Ohio and, yeah everywhere I go there's just so much love
So I love you girls SO much
And, y'know shout out to all my Africans y'know
Because they bootleg my mixtape out in Nigeria
Hit up Amadou, he can make the Cartier-a
And shout out YouTube dot com forward slash Nicki Minaj TB
MySpace dot com foward slash Nicki Minaj
A shout out to WorldStarHipHop, um
For keeping me so relevant, in a world of irrelevant bitches
Just y'know be a bad bitch, never be a stupid bitch
Step your pussy up and all that
Am I forgetting somebody? I'm not forgetting anybody am I?
Oh you know what you're right
Somebody brought the name up
I don't know if they'll even understand
Do they even know this guy, out here in the United States?
Umm, a little dude named, Dwayne Carter
Dwayne Michael Carter, umm, y'know
He runs a label called Young Money Entertainment
And umm, y'know, he's my sensei and I'm the ninja
And umm, I love him very very fuckin much
And umm, y'know, just have to shout him out
Say thank you for EVERYTHING you've done
Y'know cause we're totally 'bout to take the globe by storm
So, umm, I can't wait. Bye! ("HOLIDAY SEASON!!").


You know they say who, who is Nicki Minaj and 
You know I'm like a multiple personality bitch 
Like you know I'm. I'm you know I'm a ninja I'ma boss 
Im, I'm the Harajuku Barbie 

Who say dem wahn hackle mi body, 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Now tell me who say dem wahn hackle mi body 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Mi admit it mi say mi moan and groan 
Admit it, moan and groan 
Admit mi say mi moan and groan
Admit it mit it mit it 

Yo
I just heard that I was the baddest in the town 
So I came down and had to pick up my crown 
Went to Taiwan and had to pick up my wand 
Now everybody wanna pick up my sound 
Baddest under ground since Harriet Tub 
That's why when I come around they hurry and run 
And I know it ain't math but I carry the one 
Got a couple body guards that'll carry the guns 
Yao Ming, Imma need a couple Asians 
Sayonara bitches on that kawasaki blazin, 
Ayo Rihanna gotta come up off dem bajans 
Call Wyclef imma need a couple haitians 

Now Where my West Indies, 
Where the fuck my curry chicken and my rice and peas 
Ma madda cunt Trinis
Ma Jamaican bad gal 
All ma GUYANESE 

Who say dem wahn hackle mi body, 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Now tell me who say dem wahn hackle mi body 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Mi admit it mi say mi moan and groan 
Admit it, moan and groan 
Admit mi say mi moan and groan
Admit it mit it mit it 

I just found out that I was doper than Amy Winehouse maybe 
Fresh out the navy 
Fresher then a daisy 
Use to be on baisley 
Young Money bunny bitch please say the baby 
Please stop tellin' me, I'm such a rock star 
Assalamu alaikum where the fuck is akbar 
Give 'em my keys tell 'em valet my car 
Bees pon da wheels you can see them from far 
Now all I need is a real mandingo gimme good ruff 
And distribute my single, 
Bootleg the mixtape out in Nigeria 
Hit up amma doe, he can meet da criteria, 
If he work the middle like a Mohawk tell 'em he can meet me where dem girls say aloha, 
See I got the first class pussy and he use to gettin' pork chops

Real good chocha 
Fuck is my chauffer 

Who say dem wahn hackle mi body, 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Now tell me who say dem wahn hackle mi body 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Mi admit it mi say mi moan and groan 
Admit it, moan and groan 
Admit mi say mi moan and groan
Admit it mit it mit it 

Ahh beam me up Scotty 
My wa-wa wine 
My wine it too dutty 
Beam me up Scotty 
My wa-wa wine 
My wine it too dutty 

One two buckle my shoe, 
No one on the corner has swagger like I do, 
Keep a 2 2 your wetter than boo hoo 
Keep a couple stacks inside of my lou lou 
Excuse me I'm sorry 
I got the 45 special don't worry 
'Cause I'm cooler then a bloodclaat flurry 
Mi like mi chicken and mi goat well curry(yeah) 

Now Where ma West indies, 
Where the fuck ma curry chicken and ma rice and peas 
Ma madda cunt Trinis
Ma jamaican bad gal 
All ma GUYANESE 

Who say dem wahn hackle mi body, 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Now tell me who say dem wahn hackle mi body 
Dem haffi have a permit and a licence fi mi 
Mi admit it mi say mi moan and groan 
Admit it, moan and groan 
Admit mi say mi moan and groan
Admit it mit it mit it 

Ahh beam me up Scotty 
My wa-wa wine 
My wine it too dutty 
Beam me up Scotty 
My wa-wa wine 
My wine it too dutty 

Sahsa:(have a permit and a licence fi mi) 
Yuh done know


I wanna get to know you
I really wanna fuck you, baby
One dose of my lovin'
I'm simply going to drive you crazy

I wanna be your lover
I wanna get to know you, baby
One dose of my lovin'
I'm really gonna drive you crazy

(Young Buc)
I'm lovin' how you look in my eyes
Swingin' them hips when you pass
I'm visualizing my name tatooed on that ass baby
Jump on this Harley
Lets go smoke some of that Bob Marley
Sip some Bacardi
Then go pull up at the afterparty
I think we make a perfect couple
But you think I'm trouble
Maybe that's the reason you gave me the wrong number
She got me feeling like "maybe she the wrong woman"
Think I'm'a be chasin' the chicken head you own somethin'
Your toes painted hair fixed all the time
And your Gucci boots the same color as mine
If you read between the lines you can see that I want you
I betcha I have you doin' what you said that you won't do
Making decisions shorty good things don't last long
Your girlfriend keep showin' me that thong
Before I head home
I'm'a stop at your house and blow the horn
If you come outside you know it's on (holla at your boy)

(Lloyd Banks)
Bitches be frustrated with the baller
Wonder why I don't call her
Maybe because I'm busy and she needs someone to spoil her
It gets annoying from time to time I gotta ignore her
In order to let her know we'll be friends and nothing more
She loves it when I'm in town
Hate it when I'm not around
I get her and wear down
Next door neighbors hear the sound
Pictures hittin' the ground
Just enough to hold us down
I'm stickin' 'n' moving cruising after the third round
Just lay back baby and let me drive you crazy
I can make a 40 year old feel like a young lady

I admit I fell in love with her frame
And to make her feel special I let her call me by my government name
Her panties wet over fame
Fall in love with my chain
I wonder if I wasn't an entertainer would she remain
Surrounding me hounding me trying to be my only
I'm not your boyfriend I'm your homie.

(50 Cent)
(Yeah) What would fuck me up more
Watching her lick her lips
Or watching her walk she hypnotize me with her hips (yeah) man
I sweet talking her if she like
Cause all she really want is a nigga to treat her right right
Look I'm legit now used to break laws
Now you can reap the benefit of world tours
Big house big Benz girl it yours
Mink coats Italian shoes stones with no flaws
You ain't go to look like a model for me to adore you
All you gotta do is love me and be loyal
Don't Indulge in my past fuck what happened before you
Cause their be some homies gonna hate you that never saw you
Come here let my touch on you I let you touch on me
Put my tongue on you you put your tongue on me
Let me ride on you and you can ride on
We can do it all the night
We can have a balla tonight

I wanna get to know you
I wanna get to know you, baby
One dose of my lovin'
I'm simply gonna drive you, crazy

I wanna be your lover
I wanna get to know you, lady
One dose of my lovin'
I'm really gonna drive you, crazy

(x2)
I wanna be your lover
I really understand you, baby
I want to be your lover
I really understand you, baby, baby, baby, baby.


Shawty, I'ma only tell you this once: you the illest; (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
And for your lovin', I'm a die hard like Bruce Willis... (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
You got spark, you, you got spunk;
You, you got something all the girls want...
You're like a candy store, and I'm a toddler;
You got me wantin' more and ma-ma-more of 
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... your love, your love...
Your love, your love... your love, your love...

Uh... uh, yo...
He the type to pop tags, and be cockin' the brim;
Might breeze through The Ave, might stop at the gym,
And he keep a du-rag, keep the wave on swim;
Wa-wa-waves on swim, so they hate on him...

Anyway, I think I met him sometime before,
In a different life, or where I record...
I mean... he was Adam, I think I was Eve,
But my vision ends with the apple on the tree...

S-S-S on my chest, 'cause I'm ready to save him,
Ready to get buck on anybody that plays him...
And I think I love him, I love him just like I raised him;
When he call me "Mama", "Lil' Mama", I call him "Baby"...

Shawty, I'ma only tell you this once: you the illest; (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
And for your lovin', I'm a die hard like Bruce Willis... (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
You got spark, you, you got spunk;
You, you got something all the girls want...
You're like a candy store, and I'm a toddler;
You got me wantin' more and ma-ma-more of 
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... your love, your love...
Your love, your love... your love, your love...

Mm-hmm... yo... yo...
He the type to keep a couple hundred grand in a rubber band;
Just left Money Gram in the Lemon Lam...
Hot damn, make me scream like Summer Jam;
I mean, that nigga must be from the motherland...

Anyway, I think I met him in the sky;
When I was a geisha, he was a samurai...
Somehow I understood him when he spoke Thai;
Never spoke lies and he never broke fly...

S-S-S on my chest, let me get my cape on;
He's so thugged out, Ghostface and Raekwon...
Konvict! Just like Akon,
'Cause you know the snitches be putting the Jake-on...

Shawty, I'ma only tell you this once: you the illest; (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
And for your lovin', I'm a die hard like Bruce Willis... (Ba-pa-dot-dot-doh...)
You got spark, you, you got spunk;
You, you got something all the girls want...
You're like a candy store, and I'm a toddler;
You got me wantin' more and ma-ma-more of 
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... (Yeah...) Your love, your love... (Yeah...)
Your love, your love... your love, your love...
Your love, your love... your love, your love...

Find me in the dark, I'll be in the stars;
Find me in your heart - I'm in need of your love...
Your love... your love, your love...
Baby, you're the illest...
Your love...

Your love...


This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

Ayo, where my BFF?
Where my playboy bunny? Where that nigga Hugh Heff?
When we pull off at the light, why everything else get left?
Why they screwin up they face? Why they lookin' a hot mess?
Why they be like no they didn't?
Them bitches is always shittin
My clock be tick tick tick tickin
Them chickens is finger lickin'
And that's why we do 'em greasy
Stuntin in Louie Veezy
We straight without a perm and you bitches is stupid peezy
Would you like some rice with that?
We get alotta cheese no mice with that
I mean I want some ice with that
No soda, where your owner?
Give your license back, hoe

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

Th-that's my girlfriend, g-g-g-g-girlfriend
Don't forget the brush, blowdryer and the curlin iron
That's my girlfriend, tell them hoes stoppington

They know they want everything that we be coppington
Wherever I slide through, I gotta go buy two
If I get it in the pink I get her the light blue
Brand new Range Rover that was for her bday
I just auctioned off some shit you could get it on e-bay
Anyway we VIP, we don't even need ID
Put 'em in the ICU if they don't bring the ICE
Get them bottles of Rose, one Long Island Ice-ee Tea
Put my bracelet in the mirror, I see me icing me, get it?

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

Scuse me there's way too many groupies
Why don't you just sit back or dance?
Sorry, we don't chit chat with fans
You came in the Diablo or was it a Gallardo?
We got the top down, doors up, Murcielago (lago, lago, lago, lago)
LP460, bitches that's the model

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend (girlfriend)

This for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my, this is for my girlfriend (girlfriend)
This is for my B.F.F, girlfriend


Yo Cassie
You a bad bitch I'mma call you Lassie
Just left the tour last date Tallahasse
Don't mind me
Even witcha GPS couldn't find me
Lookin' at this boy I'mma call him McDreamy
I was wonderin' if he got a good Dick Cheney
Got a Lamborghini so the doors go high
In a button down Chris Brown bow tie!

(Cassie's part...)

Is that my cue
I'm lookin' for some brain to boost my IQ
I'm like 5'2
My SAT sc-scores was high too
But I don't wanna brag, I Loui Vuitton bagged him

Hopped out the jag proceeded to shag-shagged him
Thought he was a queen I dr-dr-dragged him
Dodged to the room and whipped out the magnum
Slim, trim, also light skin
Now P-P-Peter put the pipe in
Yes sir I am that bitch
Fuck you Silly like the rabbit
*Giggles*
Giddy Up Giddy Up
Now wake Diddy up Diddy up Diddy up
Young Money Nicki
Badboy Cassie
You wanna Minaj
Now let's get nasty


(Nicki)
I got that hard Gucc
You know these bitches easy
I got that cold flu
I got that itchy sneezy
You in that Mitsubishi
I'm in that Bentley GT
I'm taking trips with papi
You walkie talkie copy
I got them pookie feins
Might rock some juicy jeans
I mean some juicy sweats
Maybe some lose your giusepp's
I play foul no free throw
Bitch I ball no pre-show
Dead ass no peep show!
Brought a run pronto
With a front condo
Daughter, son, John Doe
Watching tele-mundo
Flyer than a rocket
Money in my Polly Pocket
What you copping
Keep that work inside my Pippy Long Stockings
Bitch!


It's not chipped, we're not cracked
Oh, we're shattered
Mariah, Young Money
Nicki Minaj, you're such a Barbie

Yo, Mariah, I was in a million dollar meetin' he was cheatin'
All up in the church he was sneakin' with the deacon
Cat's away while the mice will play
L-O-L, smiley-face, have a nice day

'Cause pop, pop, pop, there goes my rubber band
So stop, stop, stop censoring that contraband
'Cause you was penny-pinchin', my accounts laced
Attention, about-face

I thought we had something special and we had something good
But I should have had another mechanic under my hood
If you see me walkin' by you, boy, don't you even speak
Pretend you're on a sofa and I'm on the TV

Might see me on a poster, see me at a show
But you won't see me for free, boy, this ain't no promo

Actin' all shamed now
Wherever you been layin' you can stay now
Gotta board the BBG and pull the shades down, I'm on the plane now
And don't keep callin' from your momma house

When I break, I break, boy
Up out my face, boy, up out my face, boy
Up out my face, I break
Up out my face, boy, up out my face, boy
Up out my face, I break

You ain't ever gonna feel this thing again
You gonna get a lot of calls 'cause I cc'd all your friends
I ain't walkin' around all mopey and sad
That ain't even my bag, baby, I break

So look who's cryin' now, boo-hoo-hoo
Talkin' about you're missin' your boo, hoo-hoo
I know you ain't getting it, I know you ain't hittin' it
No, you ain't a rapper so you need to stop spittin' it

Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, you'll wonder who I'm messin' with
While you ain't next to me
I'm going bye, so pay the consequences
'Cause you acting all ignorant

So you ashamed now
Wherever you been layin' you can stay now
Gotta board the BBG and pull the shades down, I'm on the plane now
And don't keep callin' from your momma house, when I break, I break

Stylin' on them big B's with the Benz out
Elevator, press P for the penthouse
Top dogs, yeah, we break like tacos
Roscoe's on his knees with a snot nose

They be like, "She next", Kawasaki, T-Rex
Give him some Kleenex, match his little V-necks
Oh, that's what he left? Let his momma pick it up
Might back-up on it, vroom-vroom, with a pick-up truck

That blue and yellow, yeah, that's the Carmello Jag
I bob and weave and hit them with the Mayweather jab
I get the thumbs up like I'm hailin' a yellow cab
My flow nuts like I'm hotter than a yellow tag

'Cause when I break, I break, I break
And no super glue can fix this s***
When I break, I break, I break
Not even a welder and a builder can rebuild this s**

When I break, I break, I break
Not even a nail technician with a whole lot of gel and acrylic can fix this
When I break, I break
If we were two lego blocks even the Harvard University
Graduating class of 2010 couldn't put us back together again

When I break, boy
Up out my face, boy, up out my face, boy
Up out my face, I break
Up out my face, boy, up out my face, boy
Up out my face, I break

You ain't ever gonna feel this thing again
(I told you, I put, I put your stuff on the side walk)
You gonna get a lot of calls 'cause I cc'd all your friends
(I will go over every nook and cranny with a pick-up truck)
I ain't walkin' around all mopey and sad
(Like straight up and down, this is Nicki Minaj, if they ask about me, Young Money)
They're collecting my bags, baby, I break boy

Up out my face boy, up out my face boy
Up out my face, I break
Up out my face boy, up out my face boy
Up out my face, I break


I am g-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home)

Guess who
You bitches is re-re (Lam)
Lamborghini strawberry kiwi
Fashion week in Paris was nice (nice)
Every designer had my size (size) (ha ha ha ha ha ha)

Switch my hair they gon copy her (copy her)
Switch my gear they gon copy her (copy her)
L-l-look at how they stare just to copy her (copy her)
Well roger that
Did you copy that
C-c-copycat

I am-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home)

Back door

Because I am leaving
Want more
But now they just greedy
Yo tellem fi go make 'em qwan with no mistakes
Color up shades lower with my disguise

Switch my hair they gon copy her (copy her)
Switch my gear they gon copy her (copy her)
L-l-look at how they stare just to copy her (copy her)
Well roger that
Did you copy that
C-c-copycat

I am g-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home) [x3]
I shut it down already
I am g-going home (home)

Are you ready for the show (show)
We get alotta dough (dough)
And you already know
Yeah you already know
That I done shut it down (down)
That's why I'm going home (home)


Girl I'm done with you, girl we done it's through
I hit that nigga for the work, stick and move, then I SKRT, SKRT, SKRT
SKRT, SKRT, what is up with you
I thought I said I'm done with you
Fuck my school and fuck my teacher too
Sniper on the roof, he playing peek-a-boo

Skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt
Jump in that Jag, SKRT, SKRT, SKRT
Skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt

When I say keep the poker, I ain't talking bout' no beans
Project Baby, you know I got baby bottles full of lean
I've been through so much of shit, this shit'll' make a nigga sing
I remember rocking bugle boy, now rock designer jeans
God dang, you just like my chain, you just like to swing
It's 1k, I got 22k and all my niggas bling
Hit the club on them jiggas, you know all my niggas geeked
You would think I'm 'bout to smack your bitch, I made her hit her knees
Met this plug, I was talking 'bout he put that thing on me
I finessed him, ain't got time to let you run no game on me
Like I'm working out, life done dropped a lot of weight on me
I've been busy, I've been working hard so don't you hate on me
You my dawg then just be my dawg and don't you change on me
Don't you switch, don't you change on me, no switching lanes on me
I was in that Jag, now I'm pulling up in that range on me
I ain't in no gang, but if you run up I'm gon' bang on me

Girl I'm done with you, girl we done it's through
I hit that nigga for the work, stick and move, then I SKRT, SKRT, SKRT
SKRT, SKRT, what is up with you
I thought I said I'm done with you
Fuck my school and fuck my teacher too
Sniper on the roof, he playing peek-a-boo

Skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt
Jump in that Jag, SKRT, SKRT, SKRT
Skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt, skrt


Glee!
Southside
And Lil Metro on that beat

Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
They sendin' all my homies on a mission
And I ain't tryna miss out on these millions

I jumped out of that Wraith, Kodak bought a Wraith
I get any girl I want, any girl I want
She want me to save the day, but I ain't got a cape
She wanna see me everyday, she wanna be my bae
That money make me cum it made me fornicate
Uh, I'm the shit, I need some toilet paper
Follow my player rules then we gon' be okay
On the real, I need a bih' who gon' cooperate

Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
They sendin' all my homies on a mission
And I ain't tryna miss out on these millions

I told you niggas, I'm gon' be that fuckin' nigga
Everything be good 'til you doin' better than 'em
They wanna see a nigga shot or see me in the system
All you niggas out here poison like snake venom
Codeine in my liver, rockin' Balenciaga denim
I'm booted even when I'm sober, I don't need a jigga
They sendin' all my niggas on a fuckin' journey
I told that baby to come over 'cause I'm fucking horny
My mama told me kill these niggas, son keep it goin'
I'm thug to the bone, but I'm still her baby boy
Lil Kodak, boy they hate to see you in a foreign
They miss when you was in that 'Yota kickin' door

Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
Lil Kodak they don't like to see you winnin'
They wanna see you in the penitentiary
I need me a lil' baby who gon' listen
Girl I don't wanna be the one you iggin'
My mama told me, "Boy make a decision"
Right now I gotta keep a tunnel vision
They sendin' all my homies on a mission
And I ain't tryna miss out on these millions


I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whiffing.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whipping.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

I go hard in the mother fucker kitchen using baby bottles for the lean
Wifey says I'm tripping, plus I got maybelline smeared right bellow my zipper,
I'm a Kama Sutra reader and a conjure drinker.
Hot on the stove, smoking like reefer
This work ain't bout shit, that's why it's cheaper.
This ho ain't bout shit, that's why she's cheaper,
All we blow is strong, that's why you weaker!
Wait up, yo status change when you wait up,
Waiting on the meal, I already put my plate up!
Nigga fall back up, already put my rake up,
Every time I leave the booth they put yellow tape up.
Hair weave killa, messing up her make-up,
Pyrex vision and I'm about to cook a cake up.
Get a 4, add a lil water,
Get her in a track, and ride her like a motor!

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whiffing.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whipping.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

It's just a three watches, asshole!
One platinum, one white, one rose gold
Drive a solid gold Rolls to the Rose Bowl.
Rose in the club for my rose home!
Man fuck these niggas I got blow goals,
I count money all night, I need some no-doze,
Here to try, I want it easy, I need a bankroll
All the money I the trunk, bitch the bank roll
I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen, nigga,
Got me standing at that water like I'm fishing, nigga!
Never know about me, I pull a bass out
Drop a 250 in and pull a half out
Had to do it for the town and the trap niggas
Me and 2 chains, it's over for you rap niggas!
And nothin' says butter like parkay
And nothin' make them J's stutter like hard yay

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whiffing.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whipping.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

It started in the kitchen, king of the whipping,
Denzel in glory, tear drop was missing!
Just like the roof is riding in that Chris Brown,
Two seater deuces, peeling like I skip town!
Pocket full of brick money, neck full of black gold,
Black diamonds got the Jesus piece like [?]
That's 2 chainz. I'm [?] I'm for everyone I cook I make [?].
Mary Kate and Ashley, Tia and Tamara, 2 in the 4 like the Porsche Panamara
Look in the mirror, look in the mirror, vision clouded by the coke
Ain't makin' it clearer!
I make it look easy, I rap it up greezy
Bandana around the brick, I make him look jeezy,
But I push the ton of it get the name right,
Who else could fly and then land on the same flight? Pushhh

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whiffing.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!

I go hard in the mother fucking kitchen,
Whole thang half thang, nigga I'm pitching!
Hit him with the soda make a nigga start whipping.
Hit you with a choppa make a nigga start flipping!


Yo yo... yo yo yo yooooooo... 2 Chaaaaaaaaiiiiiinnnzzzz

We gon' get it in, we gon' get it in
Started wit' a model, then I fucked her friend
Then I bought a condo, then I bought a Benz
Ballin' outta control we gon' get it in

Nigga ? bedroom try to play us on the cellphone
Ask me what's my alibi this big thick yellow redbone
Strawberry banana, we dance in our pajamas
And pose for the camera, making music no piano
Got keys on the counter, please don't get me started
Every beat I get on it end up dearly departed
Mack 11 shawty, Kawasaki balling
Tried to pop a wheelie and the Kawasaki falling
Money in my backpack, I'm too past that to go ask that
Fuck how much it cost, I got to go have that
Duck ass nigga, yeah... Aflac
And we getting paper baby can I get a hand-clap
Clap-clap-clap-clap-clap now I been booming out my traphouse
Nigga try to go and we gon' have to pull them thangs out
'Cause I got them chains out, them charms and them rings out
And if you been hustling, then we took the same route


First I bought a Beamer, then I bought some rims
Then I fucked a model, then I fucked her twin
See I don't give a fuck, we don't fuck wit' them
I'm yelling fuck the other side, we gon' get it in!
Talking on my iPhone wit' that shuffle on my iPod
Alligator belts when I flow no Izod
Walking wit' my chopper, I might need a tripod
Make ya dog look backwards nigga... my God
And know that I hustle all day
And hang on the west like Kanye
And I got techs like Georg-a, in my yellow jacket
Bitch don't act right I get her a yellow taxi
Niggas know what happen when you fucking wit' the captain
Niggas know I'm sushi, I'm raw, what's happening
Smoking on that cannabis, drinking on that lavender
And I'm getting to it every day that's on the calendar


(Okay) Free Tunechi, Yeah
2 Chainz! Hey, Hey, Hey

I got a bad bitch, she more than cute
And bitch I'm balling, I'm talking more than hoops
This is that fish scale, nigga we water-proof
I got into it with my car and I said fuck the roof
Fuck the roof, fuck the roof, fuck the roof, f-fuck the roof
Top back and I'm getting loot
Blowing smoke up in the air and saying fuck the roof

(Verse 1: 2 Chainz)
I'm in my black car chilling with my yellow ho (Yellow ho)
It's a two seater but it's known to carry fo'(Okay)
2-2 Chainz, Gucci carry-on
I got my Gucci shades, now I just carry on
And I got four zips off in my Styrofoam
See you niggas couldn't reach me on the telephone
We the two gun gang nigga, uncaged
On the front page known to leave niggas rugs stained
And I bought my mistress a sharpay
And I bought my yellow bitch a mustang (Get out of here)
Long hair, nigga no fade
And I just bought a watch that cost a whole thang


I'm blowing smoke in here, tell me where's Smokey Bear
They say I look like a chimney when I'm on the chair
I'm standing in the vip, I'm parked in the vip
I go from vip to vip so much that I'm nauseaous
Yellow ice caution, I'm cautious, yield
My girl like to wear her heels when she on the vodka
Real conversate, wine, and a lobster plate
I'm 'bout to doctor on this track, it's time to operate
Operation, dedication, time to meditate
Twenty-eight inches make this bitch levitate
I'm on a level where these other niggas feather weights
Southside, '09, rolling packs everyday


(Sample)

(2 Chainz)

Preach
Mhmm
Hiiiigher
Mhmm

2 Chaaaaaainz


Okay cool. You got it? Then it's cool
Wetness all around me like a pool
You say who?
I say me, she say we
She a selfish little freak: every time she nut she try to go to sleep
I go deep, she go "hee!"
When she really say "hee!" she say "T!"
She don't like to call me Tity, she no me from back in the G
I'm a beast, I'm a dog, shit I'm hanging from the tree
Yeah, we doing all that monkey shit, that sucking and that fucking shit
And if I had another pick, I would pick the other bitch
'Cause she more like the way I like em, and this one right here ain't shit
This one might need a quilt, it's cold on the other side
Her head so fire, I hated for them other guys
Pimpin' and I'm mackin'
Actin' in the 'lac' and
If you out chea working, you ain't worth Curtis Jackson
And she cost a hunnid, for some satisfaction
And I'm just relaxing

(Sample)


Yeah. I got a Chevelle with a Corvette engine
Champagne, bubble bath, Moet swimming
She said, "I don't know what done got into me."
And I said, "it was me when you was on liquor"
Yeah. Blame it on the alcohol. If you don't remember that, battin' your Nigeria Falls
And when I pull em, all I have to do is call:
I say come 'ere, and it's a lake in they fucking draws
And you late! Faking like a fucking broad
Hair hang like a London fall, just becau'
And the wind blow, I'm hanging out the window
Windtows, pistols, and all common essentials
If a nigga talking math, he talking my lingo
And if I say I'm popping tags, I'm talking my Benzo
I'm fresh off the lot, fresh off the block
What?

(Sample)


I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I just call her boo
I think her name is Shawna
What I really know 'bout the girl that drive the Honda.
I just call her boo
I think her name is isha, might be Tasha might even be Keisha.
All I really know her baby daddy wanna feature
And when they ran up on me she damn near had a seizure
See I just call her boo
I think her name is Ana
I met her in Miami, she say she from Atlanta
I just call her boo and she finish school
And she like to drink and like to smoke my reefer too
See I just call her boo
I think her name was Tonya
I know she from Decatur, she got a stupid onion

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

Shawty stupid dumb thick I just call her red
Now that I think about it maybe I should call ahead
She got that super fire I can't even lie
She like a water park she ain't never dry
And I just call her bae and she just call me gotti
Ain't no relationship we just fuckin' shock
She got her own bread shawty school me in a drop
Her mama own some daycares her brother got them blocks
And she a college girl sophomore I hit her in the dorm
On the hard floor she got her shit together so I respect her more
So if she ask me for some money she is not a whore

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I hate lame niggas so this a hate crime
Rich niggas shit up on 'em a gang sign
Gotta glock 40 in my waist line
Just bought a new crib by the lake side
What is life like it's love and I love my girl
Show up life a big spenda I'm tryna fuck the world
Yeah fuck 'em girl you ain't gotta go back
Call 'em tell 'em that yo pussy got kidnapped
And she layin with her forehead on my six pack
Yeah we got something in common we like big stacks
Yeah I know her name but I like to call her boo
You shoulda put a chirp on her so she wouldn't move

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane

I just call her boo
I don't know her whole name
Keep it on the low mane
All we eat is lo mein
Came from the block
Now I gotta whole thang
And you betta put a low jack on yo hoe mane


Sometimes I have them thoughts
Like I'm too real for this shit
Labels keep callin'
I need 2 mil for this shit!
Took a mixtape
Turned it to a mansion
Then I took my last pack
And it turned into gymnastics
The crazy thing about it
I been knew I had it
I was being patient, y'all was being stagnant
The crazy thing about it
I been gettin' money
I been gettin' pussy
Shades cost 600
The crazy thing about it
I don't need nobody
I don't need no co-signer
Talking 'bout I got 'em
The crazy thing about it
Everything been crazy
My girl cousin died
Now who gon' take care of them babies

A-Town, we got one
Westside, we got one
Eastside, we got one
Southside, we got one
Got one, I got one
This pistol on me, I got one
This check homie, I got one
Respect homie, I got one

A-Town, we got one
Westside, we got one
Eastside, we got one
Southside, we got one
Got one, I got one
This pistol on me, I got one
This check homie, I got one
Respect homie, I got one

This polo, not Izod
I get dough like Tae Kwon
Asking me what I'm on
I say my bank account is on steroids
Trappin' off my Android
Tryin' not to go fed for it
'Cause I'm so high, talkin' I'm so fly
I don't know if I should l land for it
Addicted to codeine
My side effect is a red girl
If I buy the pussy you payin' for it
Put your head through the headboard
I say it but, I don't get no cred for it
Pull up in that short bus
Tell 'em this a sped tour

A-Town, we got one
Westside, we got one
Eastside, we got one
Southside, we got one
Got one, I got one
This pistol on me, I got one
This check homie, I got one
Respect homie, I got one

A-Town, we got one
Westside, we got one
Eastside, we got one
Southside, we got one
Got one, I got one
This pistol on me, I got one
This check homie, I got one
Respect homie, I got one


They say I run the streets
I tell 'em no wonder
The cheapest thang I got on is my belt and it's 400
Real recognize real and you don't look familiar
If my girl worked at a spa, man she still wouldn't feel ya
Cocaine flow, they done dropped me in the pot
I came out hard and I sold out the block
Tity 2 Chainz, I been killin' hairdos
So many dates on my calendar it looks tattooed
Got my mind on my moolah
My Tech 9 got a cooler
They scratching they medullah
They like how the fuck you do ya
Don't make me number 2 ya
Okay, I need some Charmin
I got swag for sale and I'm giving niggas bargains
Rappers are my target
My flow so retarded
Need a handicap sticker for my 16s when I park 'em
When she in the front I make her put in reverse
And if that pussy good then I'll put it in a verse
And I'm killing these niggas, Put 'em in the dirt
And yeah, I'm killing pussy we should do it in a hearse
I woke up this morning, said I'mma get it
Turned right over and I gave that bitch the business
Hopped out the king size
My friends are green guys
Suit on, it look like I done sold bean pies
Qui-Qui-Quiet storm
I flick my lighter on
2 blunts together like an extension cord

Oh yeah we gettin' to the money (Understatement)
I know you heard my trap bunkin' (Understatement)
All my bitches bad (That's a understatement)
My car is going really fast (That's a understatement)

Oh yeah we gettin' to the money (Understatement)
I know you heard my trap bunkin' (Understatement)
All my bitches bad (That's a understatement)
My car is going really fast (That's a understatement)

You need a standing ovation
If you stand in my location
Every nigga round here done been shot or on probation
It's the life we chose, guns and hoes
Guns and roses, niggas know that rock don't roll
Grab the spray, Drop the phone, Cop the O
Niggas know my flow is Mop 'N Glo
You know where I be on
I be on the styrofoam
Chicka-Chi 1, 2 like it was a microphone
Your girl's like a drive through, I want a combo
And she's so wet I need a towel, pronto
2 Chainz, A.K.A. condo
Cause that's how much these chains cost if you don't know

Oh yeah we gettin' to the money (Understatement)
I know you heard my trap bunkin' (Understatement)
All my bitches bad (That's a understatement)
My car is going really fast (That's a understatement)

Oh yeah we gettin' to the money (Understatement)
I know you heard my trap bunkin' (Understatement)
All my bitches bad (That's a understatement)
My car is going really fast (That's a understatement)


Damn right I got it, damn right I got it
Damn right I got it, damn right I got it
Damn right I got it, damn right I got it
Damn right I got it, damn right I got it

I say lame niggas be quiet, lame niggas be quiet,
Lame niggas be quiet You in the presence of a real nigga
I say lame niggas be quiet, lame niggas be quiet,
Lame niggas be quiet You in the real nigga's presence

I eat your girl up for breakfast, won't save you no extras
Say she fuck with me cause a real nigga is her preference
Drinking like I'm from Texas, and you know I stay flexin
And if you don't know I go by tity two necklace

Damn right I got it, damn right I'm 'bout it
Click full of killers, please don't get us excited
Yeah I'm smoking loud so lame niggas be quiet
If you fuck with us, we gonna start up a riot

I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot

I ain't stunnin dese niggas, I ain't stunnin dese bitches
2 cigar rellos, look like extension
Yeah I'm from the south side, her mouth wide
My pack loud, My gat loud I back out, And click clack pow pow
Court dates Still Trial, My rep is a reptile
Now later, alligators, I step on a work like a step child
Pimp up, hoes down, make your girl pull her clothes down
Her hair down and I'm down
Her phone off so don't dial
Dis right here is dat no style, I don't know how I do the shit
I'm true to this
T.R.U. religion, they takin' swag with no permission
All year it's Gucci season, Gs on my belt buckle
Cocaine on my left knuckle, Kill and bury what's left of you

Damn right I got it, damn right I'm 'bout it
Click full of killers, please don't get us excited
Yeah I'm smokin' loud so lame niggas be quiet
If you fuck with us, we gonna start up a riot

I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot
I'mma start a riot, I'mma start a riot


(Yeah, uh huh, yeah)

See, what we about to do is (tell 'em)
Exactly what they can't do, dig that

(I got 'em)
Weezy F baby, these ho's know me
Young meal ticket watch me kick it like Shinobi
Flip it like aerobics, my flow is so heroic
My girl got a fat ass and I catch it when she throw it
I wet ya in the mornin', burn you in the evening
Dump you at night, let that duffle bag light
Like my shades hella dark, and my red flag bright
Got your bitch blowin' me, like she play bagpipe
Yeah I lay that pipe, I'm the plumber to your woman
I'm the flame on the stove in the desert in the summer
I'm a stunner so I'm gonna, stunt on you bitches
Big tow trucks sittin' on chrome engines
My account look like phone digits
Don't play in that boat because today I'm goin' fishin'
You don't get it, that's why I push that folk
Dirty to that dollar blown engine

And I'm a young nigga with money
Now what you goin' tell a young nigga with money
(Hey you, young nigga with money
What you goin' do with all that money)
Well I'm a stunt when I want to
I'm a stunt when I have to
I'm a stunt when I need to
I'm a stunt when I see you
I'm a stunt when I see you
I'm a stunt when I see you
Everytime I see you
I'm a stunt when I see you

(Ok, yeah)
The feet on the whip, big like Jurassic Park
The car tall to get in you need a running start
And I been gettin' doses, a runny nose
Kush my cologne you can smell it on my clothes
You know me I'm at the bar with a broad with a
Arm full of tattoo's, neck full of cars
Handful of money, what up Young money
Who the baddest bitch in the club, I'm going hunting
I'm from College Park it's the home of the Menard
If you finna like money then you are my target
Where my fuckin' boys and my duffle bags swinging
The way I reach notes man I oughta be singin'
My automo blingin' and the automo leanin'
The model ain't out yet for all the more reason
Four plus four, now we're even
Two chains doin' his things at the Four Seasons

Now, I'm a young nigga with money
What you goin' tell a young nigga with money
Hey you, young nigga with money
What you goin' do with all that money
Well I'm a stunt when I want to (yeah)
Stunt when I have to (yeah)
Stunt when I need to (yeah)
Stunt when I see you (yeah)
Stunt all on you
Stunt all on you
Everytime I see you
I'm a stunt all on you


Yeah
Viagra? 2 Chainz!

Pull up in your city askin' bout my back-then
I pull it out your girl tell me put it back in
Hair weave killer have me puttin' tracks in
Then I black out black coupe with some black rims

I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
Car so damn big it look like I'm hidin'
I am so damn fly look like I'm flyin'

I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra

Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Hard

Yeah okay I pull up at the light
They already choosin'
Ralph Lauren boat shoes I'm already cruisin'
Audemar P tell 'em all the more drinks
It be me, her and her tell 'em all the more freaks
I'm gettin' to the Benjis I be puttin' it in her kidney
Addicted to the money smokin' loud from my prescription
Look at my position man I started off local
Now I got my own shows and I don't need a fuckin' co-host
I'm a logo ho I got logos all over me
Photos of me posin' like Jodeci poetry
Me and two girls man you know it's like flow-etry
I tell 'em hoes goodnight go to sleep
Forty deep forty day forty nights
Sippin' dirty sprite
Married to the game that's my prototype
My polo white my four door white white rims
Lookin' like Casper
I'm the man bitch you can be the man after
I provide jobs like a contractor
One button make the car back up
See I'm a syrup sippin' animal, emcee cannibal
All I spit is gasoline, all my verses flammable (ugh!)

I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
Car so damn big it look like I'm hidin'
I am so damn fly look like I'm flyin'

I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra

I be going -- I be going hard
I'm from GA just to state the odds
PSA -- public service announcement
If you ain't gettin' no money get the hell from 'round me
You don't grind you don't eat check the logo
Duffel bag full of cash I'm hard like a porno
My sweater come from Polo
Sweat her that's a no-no
And no I'm not from D.C. but bitch you gotta go-go
I'm hard on 'em no homo
Pause -- smoke fo', pause -- smoke mo' I need to take a photo
Cam-er-a ready when I walk out the front do'
Last name respect first name utmost

I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
I'm ridin'
Car so damn big it look like I'm hidin'
I am so damn fly look like I'm flyin'

I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra
I be goin' hard -- Vi-Agra

Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Hard
Go, Go, Hard, Yeah


I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it,
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.

I am smoking on exotic, my girl ain't got no stomach
Every time we have sex she always ask me for a hundred
I asked her sf she working, she asked me do I want it
I say when went to school bitch money was the subject ...

I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it,
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it.

I'm ridin' round my side of town, boxing gloves
I beat the trial, I had the coke, I had a smile
I had a coat for every style, crocodile the gator type
I'm allergic to the hater type, I'll take ya wife, give her back
9 months after that SIMILAC! similar to sayin' mama's baby daddy's maybe uh
W-when we had sex I was in the Mercedes
And I ain't crazy but if that's my baby
Then we gonna have name the lil baby Mercedes
The money that I makin' I don't see ya like I'm blind
I rather spend money baby I don't spend time
My pocket's on full and so is my gas tank and all my cars got
Gas in the ash tray

I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it,
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it, it's mine I spend it.
It's mine I spend it, it's mine I spend it.
I'm ridin' round and I'm gettin' it.

Foe toe ready my polo out the cleaners I'm the the perfect definition
Of something you've never seen of, Maserati kawasaki bought my girl a beamer
The jewelry I got on is matchin' with the tequila, Patron, margaritas, double for my diva's
I bring all my guns to work, gilbert arenas
Plus I'm killin' features and I'm killin' shows
I should have sex in the coffin' 'cause I'm killin' these hoes
Fufillin these goals, climbin up the ladder, shoot yo ass down you know I rep Atlanta, Southside!
I'm ridin' around stuntin, smokin' loud in public, talkin' loud in public, yeah my entourage is bucket


(2 chainz - hook:)
Murder, murder, this right here that murder
Pulled the car out the garage, they screaming bloody murder
Murder, murder chalk line around your daughter
3 Cell phones and I still don't ever call her

(2 chainz - verse 1:)
Murder, murder, smoking on that murder
If a girl out with me, just know she murder
Murder, murder, take her ass like burglar
Then I put her on the loud and feed her turkey burgers
Murder, murder, this is bloody murder
All this ice all over me, I should wear a thermos
Murder, murder, hit you with the burner
Hit you with the burner, hit you with the burner


(2 chainz - verse 2:)
Murder, murder, yea I'm killing niggas beats
When I'm out of town and on the stage it's rest in peace
Murder, murder somebody call my lawyer
They said I was killing tennessee when I was down in florida
Murder, murder, my shoes none than a quarter
Rapping with the murder team nobody wanna record us
Murder, murder listen to the chorus
Niggas wanna know how I get it when I get
Don't worry, just know it's murder


(Kreayshawn - verse 3)
This right here is murderous
I'm mama kreay the gangsterous
From the east to the west it gets dangerous
When you get that dough on display and shit
Bitches will be hating this
But my mind still climbs for greater-ness
That money that I'm playing with
Put a whole in your head with no blame for it
Saying it
I'm kaying
Come back to the block and I'm spraying it
Delaying, I'm stopping it
Put a end to your life, I'm blocking it
Your career bitch, you was never on
I heard 2 chainz blocked you off his phone
Bitch don't call him if you ain't 'bout to ho
Bitch don't call him if you ain't 'bout the doe

Hello...
Hello...
Hello...
Hello...


Everything that I got I got from slanging birds

(2 Chainz)
Niggas know I call my porsche the baby elephant
You ain't talking money then you got speech impediment
Everything I got I got from selling shit
And who I sold it to is irrelevant
Pocket full of Dead Presidents I'm With whatever
I pull my dick out and tell her sit wherever
I done stood on the block nigga from 9 to 9
And I sell a 9 at least 9 times
9Milla Clientel Look Like Thriller
If my baby mama cheating I Hope God with her
You not iler I'm Godzilla on hard liquor
My Penny loafers had nickels... UGH

Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigga
That's my word
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigga
That's my word

(Young Jeezy)
I am slangin Chickens
I am slangin Hawks
I Take The 4 Up out of bricks bitch I can write in chalk
You know I know that white green like a chalk board
What you doin' just chillin' look like the top bored
So many chickens in the kitchen it looks like a zoo
Must be some owls in this bitch 'cause I keep hearin WHO
This for my niggas cookin 9s like they chicken breast
You know we tryna hide the 9s that's why the chickens dressed
I Had the lam Black and green like a parkeet
You know I ain't tripping
50 pigeons in a cherokee
Everything a nigga got is from slanging birds
What I ain't get from slangin blocks I got from slanging Birds... SNOW

Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigga
That's my word
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigger
That's my word

(Yo Gotti:)
I got a Car that bitch is classy white on red
Inside out that bitch nasty
When I pull up on them 6s speakers blastin
Black scale white work clear plastic
And everything I got I got from sellin birds
Half a brick to do a verse I guess I am sellin words
That dubbed it up
Niggas send medranks so thadouble the cup
Got 2chainz bitch I'm icey as fuck
2brac on my arm that's a 100 and up
We sell dope it ain't none to us
New bitch new whip nigga change for what nigga change for
What and where I come from niggas bang for none
Every nigga in the hood gotta stand for sum
Drinkin' soda bakin soda I'm yammin up
In the kitchen at the table just a gram and up
My niggas grinding we banding up
These pussies know not to be playin' with us... WORK

(Birdman:)
My bad bitch my money long
Car game filthy and my game strong
The kitchen hot
My block rock
My neighborhood shot 'cause them cars hot
Nigga on some money shit
Got back on that other shit
Came with the fame nigga listen while you learn BITCH
Money is for show shit
Gettin' it while we blow this bitch
All the time we are gonna show where we are flowing bitch
100 thousand on the watch
Living lavish off top
Neighborhood watch
Cocaine flocks
The coke game strong
Overseas phone
Nigga made it home
So we gettin' it on

Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigga
That's my word
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
Everything that I got I got from slanging birds
That's my mother fucker word nigga
That's my word


I'm popular and poppin' dough
Breakfast at Papa Deaux's
Dodgin all obstacles
Trappin at the Stop-N-Go
Boy you know you lame if you still ridin' stop and go
Disect the beat and then I turn it to a particle
Pardon though I'm hardin though
You should read the article
I'm ridin' high and dodgin hoes
You better hope I'm dodgin your model hoes
Dollar hoes, white lookin' Madonna hoes
Dolce Gabbana, Ferragamo and the Prada hoes
College hoes on three, niggaz with a lot of dough
I Snoop guard the dough, I just love bein by the stove
Heres some food for thought, a little food for your soul
Like a comma, I love bein right next to O's

I had a long day, my nerves bad
Yeah I'm smokin' on loud I know you heard that
Hit the jewelery store, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Leave the trap house, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Time to re-up, I got a hundred bands
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands

We sittin' high speakin' like we super human Benz
Cars mulatto, black on black Europeans
Too hard to swallow like UGKings and
Number one thesis do you believe in Jesus
They say money is the root of all diseases
Well call the doctor I see honest in my thesis
Summer vacation, one trip two bricks
Baby momma sayin' I'm impatient my sons need shit
When you pull up to the front, all you see is whips
Diddy bop to the back all you see is zips
In Ziplocks, and garbage bags
Usher Raymond in this bitch yeah "I got it bad"

I had a long day, my nerves bad
Yeah I'm smokin' on loud I know you heard that
Hit the jewelery store, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Leave the trap house, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Time to re-up, I got a hundred bands
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands

(2 Chainz!) My plug need me, but he greedy
I ran off told me catch me on the TV
See I'm from where you rob Peter to pay Paul
I'm yellin' fuck the world I woke up with my dick hard
Big dog, big broads all in my circumference
Pussy on lock down, I don't handcuff it
Sippin Grey Goose and we spendin mad ducats
Rubberband fetish get it in abundance
Ben Franklins back to back, hundreds on hundreds
Gucci flip flaps, I got bunyons on bunyons
Yellow ring look like a Funyon, or somethin'
I just left the trap house, money on money

I had a long day, my nerves bad
Yeah I'm smokin' on loud I know you heard that
Hit the jewelery store, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Leave the trap house, with a hundred grand
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands
Time to re-up, I got a hundred bands
I can't help it I'm addicted to the rubberbands


When I woke up this morning
All I could think about was you
'Cause when I went to sleep last night
All I could think about was you
Adam and eve don't eat that fruit
'Best believe I'm a eat that boo
'Cause I'm the nigga that told them niggas
That told them niggas, 'bout you
Chuck the duce, while I'm ridin' through
Tityboi I might sign a boob
Your nigga hatin', tell your nigga that's hatin'
That if he gettin' some paper I might sign him too
'Best believe I'm just slidin' through
Put your panties to the side let me slide through
I can see you niggas from a side view
I'm in and out the pussy, drive through
White coupe, with the white rims
I like to crack the top and let the light in
You know she dark skin her friend light skin
Put us together, and it's ice cream
Sandwiches she can't manage it
I know her man is sick, she can't handle it
She need some time alone I told her call my phone
And when she call my phone I did answer it

K.o
I'm gonna smoke till you niggas can't smoke no more
Roll till your bitches can't roll no more
K.o
I'm gonna pour it till you niggas can't pour no more
Blow till your bitches can't blow no more
K.o

B-i-g
Okay I'm in motion I'm rollin' and smoking
And smoking and rollin' like I'm locomotion
I'm walking outside and I'm causing commotion
Got perp and champagne that's a real nigga potion
I'm burnin' bread toastin' and joking
'Cause I went from veiws
Of my moms house to views of the ocean
Niggas talk shit, but that's free promotion
I'm living my life like the end is approaching
Man fuck these niggas with a passion
I'm gettin' paid from the cradle to the casket
My grandma said boy you need to read a bible chapter
Till I bought her ass a house
Bigger than the pastor's, hallelujah
Your now fucking with a bad bitch connoisseur
My ex-girl said man the fame caught up to ya
Baby you don't still think about me, wet dream about me
I swear you use to couldn't wait to k.o

K.o
I'm gonna smoke till you niggas can't smoke no more
Roll till your bitches can't roll no more
K.o
I'm gonna pour it till you niggas can't pour no more
Blow till your bitches can't blow no more
K.o


I like to take it one day at a time
I like to take it one, ooh
Yea, I like to take it one day at a time
I like to take it one

(Verse 1: 2 Chainz)
Broken home, tell me what the fuck is wrong
Now I gotta charge a brick for a song
Trap guy, turned into a rap guy
No suit on but I still got trap ties
Argyles, pastels and some neckties
Shawty on the pill, X-file
40 hit 'em, leave 'em wet, baptised
And you know I'm a sucker for long hair and wet thighs
Mama see the baby, this is karmasutra
I got a present for you boo you looking at the future
As far as the past, nevermind that
I don't know who's finer, you or this wine glass
And you must rewind that if you don't get it
Got a taste of the good life and tracks is what I'm eatin
My chromosomes read Georgia Dome
Icy watch, I don't mind spending time alone


(Verse 2: Jadakiss)
Yo, get the clip out of the ashtray, put it in the air
Grab my cellphone, call my engineer
Yea, last night I was on one
Quick carwash, then I make a mall run
I'm a different brother
Louie store spending chips on some kicks
I already got, different color
40 cally chrome, on deck
All the Kush gone, gotta collect
On this mean five team parlay that a bush gone
30 minutes in the trap is a half a brick
Always hustle to get it
I never ask for shit
If it's family or money I might have to flip
I'm a say it if it's on my mind
I like to take it one day at a time


(Verse 3: 2 Chainz)
Never on the guest list
Always unexpected
In so many checks
I should make a checklist
Looking at these emcees' like they should make a deathwish
Got my girl in the kitchen, cooking ambidextrious
Left wrist, right wrist
Whip that, white bitch
This is a lifestyle, I didn't have to right this
Look at my hue blow, watch how the light hit
Look at my new ho, watch how the light hit
I done did the dollars up, die nigga
Too dehydrated to cry nigga
I was struggling, had a time limit
I wish this Aquafina bottle had wine in it
I wish that pussy had a sign in it
That said, "want it, if you hit it then you mine nigga"
Damn, that crazy bitch on that crazy shit
If you don't make money it don't make sense


Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah!
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah!
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah!

Yeah, what, what
You cannot hop in my car
Bentley coupe riding with stars
Yeah, what, what
I keep a Glock like a cop
Aye, yeah
She give the top in the drop
Yeah, aye
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what
Yeah, what, what, yeah, yeah, yeah
Yeah, yeah, yeah
Tats on my neck and my arm
Tats on my neck and my... oh yeah

Ugh, oh
In this bitch going crazy
Ugh, yeah
I whip this shit like a baby
Ugh, yeah, yeah
I fuck yo bitch she my baby
Yeah, yeah
I treat yo bitch like my lady
Ugh, ugh
Shawty bend back like the matrix
Curge whip it up like the 80s
I'm in the kitchen go crazy
I just want me a Mercedes
Pull up we totin' .380's
Pull up I sent the location
Pull up I sent the location

Yeah, what, what
You cannot hop in my car
Bentley coupe riding with stars
Yeah, what, what
I keep a Glock like a cop
Aye, yeah
She givin' top in the drop
Yeah, aye
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms
Diamonds they wet on my arms
Tats on my neck and my arms

Tats on my neck and my arm, tats on my neck and my arm
Tats on my neck and my arm, tats on my neck and my arm
Tats on my neck and my arm, tats on my neck and my arm


Yo Pierre, you wanna come out here?

In New York I Milly Rock, hide it in my sock
Running from an opp, and I shoot at opp (what)
And I'm on the block (what, what, what)
And I'm on the block (what)
In New York I Milly Rock (hello?) hide it in my sock (what)
Hide it in my sock (what) selling that rerock (what, what, what, what, what)

In New York I Milly Rock, hide it in my sock
Used to sell rerock, running from the cops
Shooting at the opps (Yo Pierre, you wanna come out here?)
Shooting at the opps, 'cause I run they block
Gimme top (top) in my drop-top
All these hoes gon' flock (flock, flock) when I drop (drop, drop)
All these hoes gon' flock (flock, flock) when I drop (drop, drop)
All these hoes gon' flock (flock, flock) when I drop (drop, drop)

Woo, woo, woo, woo
Woo, woo, woo, woo
All these hoes want cash, all these hoes want bags
Fucking on yo' bitch, uh, I'm her dad
All these niggas sound like cash (sound like cash)
I'm a soldier, damn, I thought I told you
Shootin' like a soldier, like I'm from Magnolia
All these, niggas, always, fold
Big, bank, never, fold
Sippin, Act', fill that shit slowly
Bitches, on me, say she like my clothing
I'm in London, Young Carti global
Designer is on me, call it dirty laundry
All these bitches want Young Carti, Young Carti (yeah)
Ay, Young Carti, Young Carti (what)
Young Carti, Young Carti (yeah)
All of your bitches they loose
All of your bitches they loose
All of my bitches they rich
And they stay rockin' that Rick
What, what, huh, what, what, huh
Rich, rich, Cash Carti, bitch
Rich, bitch, got a rich clique
I'm suckin' on the clit, she suckin' on the dick
Give that hoe a tip, told her "Buy some kicks"
Then I brush my teeth, pop up in a whip
Glocky in the whip, glocky in the whip
And I'm cocky, fuckin' on a thotty
She just wanna plot me, bitch can't stop me
I'm riding in a Mazi, this ain't even my Mazi
Oh, that's not yo' thottie, yo' bitch look like a aunty
Walked in with Ashanti, damn, that look like Shanti
Damn, that look like Carti, I think dat be Young Carti
Heard he spent a hunnid on a fucking watch piece, that's filthy

In New York I Milly Rock, hide it in my sock
Running from an opp, then I shoot at opp
And I'm on the block
And I'm on the block
In New York I Milly Rock, hide it in my sock
Hide in my sock, selling that rerock
What, what, what, what, what
In New York I Milly Rock, hide it in my sock
Use to sell rerock, running from the cops
Shooting at the opps, you know what I'm sayin'?
Yo, Pierre, you wanna come out here?
Bitch ass nigga, fuck that nigga man!


Look at these niggas
Look at these...

Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, ooh
Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, what
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Yuh, lil bitch
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Yuh, yuh

Aude' on my wrist, yuh, might just take your bitch, ooh
Might just take that Rick, yuh, take her on a trip, ooh
Head on her tongue, ooh, put it right there bitch, ooh
Hit 'em with the drum, ooh, they gon' feel this shit, ooh
Drivin' like I'm drunk, ooh but I'm bout that lean
Bitches wanna fuck, ooh, hoe come lean on me, ooh
Yeah Promethazine, ooh, I can't even see, ooh
Niggas envy me, bitch I'm MVP

Oh yeah, shit yeah
What the, what the fuck you...
Oh I forgot, I forgot, I forgot, I forgot, I forgot
I don't fuck with these niggas
Look at these niggas
Look at these...

Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, ooh
Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, what
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Yuh, lil bitch
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Yuh, yuh

Chopper with the stick and it got the kick
Ay Uzi, where my gun at, bruh? Stop playin' with me, man
Got a lot of kick, make you do back flip, yuh
I'm a walking lick, woo, lick, lick, lick, lick
Told the girl I do not wanna fuck told her just lick, woo
Lick, lick, lick, oh, oh, oh
I cannot fuck you no bitch, get the fuck out my whip, oh, oh, oh
Walk with your shawty, that .40 that's all on my hip
Pull up them forgies that's all on my vip
I ain't got time to be callin' no bitch
That's why I always be stallin' lil bitch
Don't want her no more, I'm passin' assists
Ay stop, stop playin' with me, stop fuckin' playin'
Jump on a bike, run from the pigs
Smokin' that gas, you smoke that mid
Fucked at my crib, met her at LIV
She laugh at these niggas, look at these bitches
It's young Carti bitch!

Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, ooh
Look at these niggas, what
Look at these niggas, what
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Fuck these niggas, uh
Yuh, lil bitch
Fuck these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Look at these niggas, yuh
Yuh, yuh

Lil snitch ass nigga, I don't fuck with these niggas
I forgot, nigga
I think they forgot


Know I got a lot, lot
I'm a rockstar
I'm a rockstar (Know I got a lot, lot)
I'm a rockstar

Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
I woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me
Woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me

Oh, I think they like me, yeah they like me
Diamonds on me ice cream, hoe that slightly
My draco bitch a Spike Lee, diamonds on me biting
I heard these niggas wanna fight me
Meet me at my next show but you better bring a pipe B
We ain't fighting, I think she like me, exciting, so exciting
Fuck me, Bentley coupe I'm riding with a thottie, fuck
I just spent a 100 on my watch piece, fuck
I done fell in love with a thottie, fuck
She just wanna fuck me for my clout, fuck
Bitch I'm off the lean I crash the Audi, fuck
Might just spend 200 on this Audi, truck

Woke up to niggas talkin' like me, talk
Woke up to niggas soundin' like me, talk
Woke up to niggas talkin' like me, talk
Woke up to niggas soundin' like me, talk
I woke up to niggas soundin' like me
Woke up to niggas talkin' like me
Woke up to niggas soundin' like me
Woke up to niggas talkin' like me

Oh I think they like me, in my white tee
Oh no no no baby smoke so much dope need some Visine
These young nigga don't like me, but act just like me (why?)
Fucked all of y'all bitches so they parties don't invite me
That bitch that's your wifey, she so trifflin'
I been getting money so don't nothing really excite me
Carti poured a 6 in the 4 of the right lean
Damn that boy, ask her for some more like the Sprite clean
Yeah, that's that dirty, that's that dirty
That girl all up in my face like she ain't tried to swerve me
These boys all up in my lane I swear they keep on merging
No I cannot see a lame 'cause my Rolls Royce got curtains

Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
I woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me
Woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me

Oh I think they like me, that she like me
The bitch want to indict me, she can't find me
I'm like dirty up the Sprite please, with some ice please
With my bitch like to sip lean, oh oh
Xans, percs, molly, we got hella things
I'm in love with the guap, gave it a wedding ring
And I swear I had these thots before I got the fame
And I swear I had the Glock before I got the chain
I'm in Bompton with Pirus and I don't even bang
Shoutout G Weed and Yung L, yo hoe that the gang
Shoutout GiGi that's my boo, she know that I claim
Shootin' at these niggas like I'm in the paint
Woke up like this

Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
Woke up to niggas talking like me, talk
Woke up to niggas sounding like me, talk
I woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me
I woke up to niggas sounding like me
Woke up to niggas talking like me


I'm with Dro, got that pack, going for the low
I think the Xans tryna tell me something

I came in with a cool hundred
And I got some bitches coming
And I got some bitches calling
I'm with Dro got that pack goin' for the low
Sell a P, sell a O, sell it for the low
If she top, I'm in love, I'mma let it go
Let it go, on your block, we gon' do a show

Let it go on your block, I might do a show
He a pussy, he a opp, he gon call the po'
All my niggas they on go, they on fucking go
Got the pole with the scope, know I keep a pole
Why these niggas, why these man's actin' like some hoes
In my Ksubi Jeans, bankroll, bankroll, bankroll
That bitch all on me, Terio, Terio, Terio
Got a stripper bitch that depend on me J-Lo J-Lo J-Lo

I came in with a cool hundred
And I got some bitches coming
And I got some bitches calling
I'm with Dro got that pack goin' for the low
Sell a P sell, sell a O, sell it for the low
If she top, I'm in love, I'mma let it go
Let it go, on your block, we gon' do a show

Fuck that bitch I'll go till dawn
Rick Owens on top of ones
We don't do no one on ones
Put that xanny on your tongue
Rock the show, I like to punk
She the type of bitch I love to fuck
Baby you the chosen one
And baby I don't fall in nothing
Fell asleep in LA, woke up to the sun
Fuck my PO, he know I got hella guns
And shoutout my OG, he know I keep in 1
Fuck that SGP, he know I brung the phonk
Hit him with the pump, leave him in the trunk
Would have fucked your baby momma, but it stunk
Beat a nigga ass, leave a nigga lumped

I came in with a cool hundred
And I got some bitches coming
And I got some bitches calling
I'm with Dro got that pack goin' for the low
Sell a P sell, sell a O, sell it for the low
If she top, I'm in love, I'mma let it go
Let it go, on your block, we gon' do a show


This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (ouh)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)

Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)
I pour that lean on the rocks
I put the crack in the jaw
Ooh, who that lil boy on the block
Up in the trap in the spot
I'mma go cook in a pot
I might go spit in a pot
All of these bitches, they want to fuck Carti, cause Carti he got a lil guap
Fuck the lil bitch in my loft
Little bitch lost in my loft
Count up 300, I'm boss
I spent the guap on my watch
Bitch I'ma ball, call the shots
Hop in the trench, change the charts
Rock this shit out no guitar
Hop in the plane on lil boy
Lil bitch you fuckin' a star
Lil bitch can't hop in the car
Lil bitch can't be my lil broad
Fuck that lil bitch, fuck that lil bitch
Fuck that lil bitch with my with my boy
Rockin' that Gucci decor

This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)

Came in that bitch with the Glock, with the mob
All of my niggas they shoot off the top
Came in that bitch, I came with a 9
2900, my niggas they fire
All of my bitches they lookin' too fine
All of these bitches they came and they mine
All of my niggas, they shoot and they fire
If you not right then a nigga get fired
She can come kick, just for the night
I'mma go fuck, just for the night
Gucci my kit, came with the spike
Shootin' that shit, feelin' like Spike
Fendi my clothes, Fendi my hoe, Fendi' my clothes, Fendi my hoe
Walk in that bitch, feelin' like Dro
Walk in that bitch, I just want mo'
Switch it up
I fuck that bitch, right 'fore the show, right 'fore the show
Switch it up
I pour a 4, right 'fore the show, right 'fore the show
Switch it up
I fuck that bitch, I fuck that bitch, pass to my bro
Switch it up
Countin' up, count it up, run it up, run it up
Switch it up

This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
This is not pop, this some rock (aye)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
This is not pop, this some rock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with a Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the Glock (yeah)
Came in that bitch with the mob (yeah)

This is not pop, this some rock
I put that lean on the rocks
This is not pop, this some rock
I put that lean on the rocks
I put that lean on the rocks
I put that lean on the


New choppa, new choppa it came with the beam
Actavist pouring up lean
Got Flacko, yeah Rocky, he pass me the bean
I shoot like a king
All of these knots on my jeans, Alexander of McQueen
Diamonds they lookin' like ice, I whip the hoe like I'm Ike
Stack up my cash I got height, take advantage of the Sprite
Take the bando bring the hype
We just go hard in the kitchen
Had a catch up with my bitches
They know that young nigga be living

Run it up, run it up, run it up
New choppa, new choppa, new choppa, new choppa
Run it up, run it up, run it up
I ain't hearing what you say, I ain't listening what you say
Get the fuck up out the way, go on let a playa play
New choppa, new choppa, new choppa, new choppa

I roll up an L in the lobby
My partner's got wops and it's probably a Glock or a Tommy
From H to the E double hockey sticks
Keep a chopper chop you if you try me bitch
Let's see who next on my homi' list
Carti like, "Rocky you bodied this", that's my prerogative
Shit on them, that's on my potty list
Accused of being boujee by a snobby bitch
Cops want to ID us, hope they as fast as my Adidas
She say I'm special, that's obvious
Rich 'cause my ideas run up the racks, for the most part
"I rap," when they ask what my hobby is
Run it up, not one of them
Rich as fuck, I'm a hundred up
Swipe, swipe, like I'm on a bus
It's A$AP and I ain't wanna rush

Run it up, run it up, run it up
New choppa, new choppa, new choppa, new choppa
Run it up, run it up, run it up
I ain't hearing what you say, I ain't listening what you say
Get the fuck up out the way, go on let a playa play
New choppa, new choppa, new choppa, new choppa


You on some other shit
You on some other shit
I be on other shit
You on some other shit
The clip it came with the clip
My bitch she came with a bitch
Whip it came with a whip
You on some other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, you on some other shit
What, what, you on some other shit

Your clip came with a clip
Your bitch came with a bitch
Saggin' my jeans a bit
Walk with a limp
All of them dig on the squad
Ooh yuh, look at the squad
All of my niggas got cash
Don't they look hard
All of my niggas got rollies
Ooh yuh, looking like frogs
Look at that bag of the cash ooh yuh
Ain't looking at y'all
Gettin' it in sendin' it out
Cooking that shit the In &amp; Out

You on some other shit
You on some other shit
I be on other shit
You on some other shit
The clip it came with the clip
My bitch she came with a bitch
Whip it came with a whip
You on some other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, you on some other shit
What, what, you on some other shit

I'm on some other shit
Taking my time and shit
Got money for buying this shit
Toting my 9 and shit
Walking designer bitch
Walking and trying on shit
I walked then I walked to the bitch
Walked in and bought the whole kit
I'm on some other shit
You on some other shit
I'm popping them pills on her shoulder bitch
Aye, you fuck with them opps that's other shit
I'm copping her blouse that's some other shit
You fuck with the opps that's some other shit

You on some other shit
You on some other shit
I be on other shit
You on some other shit
The clip it came with the clip
My bitch she came with a bitch
Whip it came with a whip
You on some other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, I be on other shit
What, what, you on some other shit
What, what, you on some other shit


Oxy-contin, xans, molly
Carti, Carti, Carti, Carti
Gang, wit me, Flacko, Bari
Switch lanes in Rarri

Look lean counting up
Big guap, Carti up
Lil shawty, wanna fuck
I'm in Lenox, counting up
Fuck a bitch, tell her fuck
Yuh, yuh, yuh, yuh
Number 9, keep it tucked
Number 9, jeans yuh
Got a bitch, fiending, yuh

Fendi, Prada, look shawty
Spend a quarter million on some molly
Might just fuck me models
Pop bottles all the time
Look lean start one
I just fucked a bitch, yeah, yah
We just got some new shit
We gon hit them with that stick
Pull up on your block quick
Quiktrip, how I keep a zip
I got all the gas, I got all the pills
Nigga simp', Carti pimp

Look lean counting up
Big guap, Carti up
Lil shawty, wanna fuck
I'm in Lenox, counting up
Fuck a bitch, tell her fuck
Yup, yuh, yuh, yuh
Number 9, keep it tucked
Number 9, jeans yuh
Got a bitch, fiending, yuh

Oxy-contin, xans, molly
Carti, Carti, Carti, Carti
Gang, wit me, Flacko, Bari
Switch lanes, Bentley, Rarri
Popping pain killers yeah, yah
I just poured a four inside the liter, yeah, yah
And your bitch just said she need a real nigga yeah, yah
Raf Simons that's on me bitch no Hilfiger, yeah, yah
I was on the block, 'til I got up nigga, yeah, yah
If your bitch gon' fuck she gon' get stuck nigga, yeah yah
Told her hurry up, we gotta rush nigga, yeah, yah
'Cause these niggas snitching on the up niggas, yeah, yah

Look lean counting up
Big guap, Carti up
Lil shawty, wanna fuck
I'm in Lenox, counting up
Fuck a bitch, tell her fuck
Yuh, yuh, yuh, yuh
Number 9, keep it tucked
Number 9, jeans yuh
Got a bitch, fiending, yuh


Yo Pierre, you want to come out here?

I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
Got these bitches saying "yeah, he do that shit"
Bitches saying "yeah, he do that shit"
Got these niggas saying "yeah, he do that shit"
Sucking on my dick, like she knew the dick
Blowing through the check yeah we new to this
I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
Got these bitches saying "yeah, he do that shit"
Sucking on my dick like she knew the dick
Blowing through the check yeah I'm new to this
Running shit back like a frisbee bitch
Bring that shit back like a frisbee bitch
I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
I'd rather not talk about it just live this shit
I'd rather not talk about it just shoot the shit
Got these niggas saying yeah he do that shit
He'd rather go talk about it than do this shit
Pull up on your block and we shooting shit
Pull up on your bitch and I'm hitting it
Hitting on your bitch yeah I'm killing it
I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
I'd rather not talk about it just live this shit
Hit a lil nigga with the Ruger
Hit a lil nigga with the Ruger
Lil nigga I ain't into y'all
I'm fucking on your lil biddie y'all
I wear Raf Simons never Hilfiger y'all
South Atlanta yeah we coming up
Ooh, put your middle fingers up
Pour it in my double cup
Extendo clip double up
I'd rather not talk about it just shoot it up
Lil nigga, middle finger up
Fuck cash up fucked the cash up
Fuck the cash up, get the math up

What what what what what (ay yeah yeah)
What what what what what (ay yuh yuh)
What what what what what (ay yeah yeah)
What what what what what (ay yuh yuh)

And I'd rather not talk about it
And I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
And I'd rather not talk about it
Got these niggas saying yeah he do that shit
Got these bitches saying yeah he do that shit
Got these niggas saying yeah he do that shit
Got these bitches saying yeah he do this shit
And I'd rather not talk about it just do that shit
Carti do that shit, Carti do that shit, let's do that shit


I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I heard you talking to them lame niggas
I see you walking with that lame nigga
I heard you stalling with a lame nigga
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I see you stalling wit' a lame nigga
Hoe stop calling up them lame niggas

Hoe stop chilling wit' them lame niggas
Kickin' it wit' them lame niggas
Fucking wit' them lame bitches
Trying to fuck for fame bitches
Trying to fuck for fame bitch
Trying to fuck Carti 'cause he famous
She in love with the dick too
Bitch I got a ruler feel like Uzi
And I got a Uzi, boy don't lose it
Bitch I'm on the xanny might just lose it
Bitch my pockets stupid thick, pockets thicker than my bitch
Pockets thicker than your bitch, ooh ooh that's your bitch
Who's that your bitch, I fucked that bitch
Yeah, yah, yuh, I fucked that bitch

I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I heard you talking to them lame niggas
I see you walking with that lame nigga
I heard you stalling with a lame nigga
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I see you stalling wit' a lame nigga
Hoe stop calling up them lame niggas

Hoe stop chillin' with them lame bitches
Tryna fuck for fame bitches
I swear to God, I keep fucking the same bitches
Fuck all of these rapper hoes
Fuck all of these rapper doe
Rob a nigga for rapper dough
Then I count some rapper dough
Ion wan' fuck these hoe, Ion even wan' fuck these hoe
Damn this shit so radical, damn my shit so radical
Ray Allen I shoot at you, Ray Allen she down to stroke
What, what, Used to rock them ballies doe
What, what, house up in the Cali hoe
What, what, fuckin' on a Cali hoe
Yeah, what, bitches check the saly' hoe
What, what, eatin' good that salad hoe

I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I heard you talking to them lame niggas
I see you walking with that lame nigga
I heard you stalling with a lame nigga
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I ain't fucking with these lame niggas
I see you stalling wit' a lame nigga
Hoe stop calling up them lame niggas


You know what I'm saying young pretty ass nigga you know
Young handsome ass nigga, pretty nigga you know?

Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming
Shawty wanna kick it with the team
I got all this guap on me
Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming

Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming
I'm counting all this guap on me!
Counting all this guap you knahmean?
Sipping on that motherfucking lean
Promethazine motherfucking lean
Niggas water down like some fucking chlorine
Bitch it's Lord of the Rings (ice)
Diamonds looking like Summertime
Trying to bite my flow am I wrong
I thought I told that ho "the world is mines"
I just took his bitch like a crime

Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming
Shawty wanna kick it with the team
I got all this guap on me
Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming

Fucking on that swoop, fucking on that hoe
Ooh fucking on that swoop, fucking on that hoe
Fucked her in the coupe, then she popped the blue
Whoa, ooh, South Atlanta goon
R.I.P. Troupe
At the Citgo, you know how it go
Count them big bankrolls, and she on the pole
And she came a long way from the stripper pole, that my hoe
And I came a long way from kicking doors, that's on bro
Look at the ice

Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming
Shawty wanna kick it with the team
I got all this guap on me
Shawty wanna ball with the team
Money sitting tall, Yao Ming


All of these bitches, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
All of these bitches, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
Ooh, ooh, walk with a bag, ooh
Sad, ooh, sad, ooh, mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
Walk in the buildin', I flex on that boy
I flex on that boy with the bag, ooh
Ice on my neck and my mama like, "Boy
Where you get all of that cash?"

I got the bag, ooh, ice on my wrist
Mama like, "Where you get this?"
I got her sad ooh, gave her a brick
Then I gave her a lil' kiss, ooh
Yeah, I rock out in the 6, 6
But nigga, we fire, we split
I'm takin' your shit, you college kid, ooh
We really be poppin' shit, ooh
I hit a lick, no kid, ooh
I had a lick but no bih, ooh
She suck me up like a tick, ooh
Damn my weed smell like a pit, ooh
He do that talk and he sip, ooh
Damn that lil' got a lil' thick, ooh
I told that bitch to come in
I told that bitch to come in

All of these bitches, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
All of these bitches, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
I walk in the bank and I laugh, ooh
Ooh, ooh, walk with a bag, ooh
Sad, ooh, sad, ooh, mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
All of these niggas, they're mad, ooh
Walk in the buildin', I flex on that boy
I flex on that boy with the bag, ooh
Ice on my neck and my mama like, "Boy
Where you get all of that cash?"

Yeah, who the fuck is you talkin' to, nigga?
The fuck you think this is?
You think 'cause you got a couple dollars you're a fuckin' playboy?
Nigga you ain't a fuckin' playboy, nigga, you ain't nothin', nigga
Fuck outta here, Carti, fuck outta here
Don't call my phone with that shit, my nigga
Real mad, nigga I don't ever get mad
This nigga trippin'
Is you mad, or what
Is you mad or what

Girl that's bad for us
Say you mad for once
Said she had enough
Girl that's bad for us
She came back for once
Yeah it's probably done
She gon' back it up
I'm gonna spaz for us
Girl that's bad for us
Say you mad for once
Said she had enough
Girl that's bad for us

I guess you're not feelin' me
Not feelin' the energy
Baby girl, we can do plan A
Baby girl, we can do plan B, ooh
I walk in that bitch, they playin' my shit
Walk in that bitch, eyes on the kicks
Walk in that bitch, eyes on the fit
I look at your bitch, then blow her a kiss
Mwah, ooh, I got that deuce in the coupe
Got a white bitch like YesJulz
All of my niggas, they fool
Look at that boy, look at his jewels
All of my niggas, they're bool
Louboutin's bleed in the booth
Ooh, these niggas, they lookin' like who
Ooh, Cash, Cash, Cash
My outfit just made the front page
Hop off the plane, I run to the stage, yah
Ooh, your ho gettin' laid
Yeah, ay, she might come in late
I heard that your nigga Atlanta
I heard that your nigga L.A
I heard that your nigga a lame

Yeah, might sing on a bitch
Ay, might sing on this shit
Might sing on a bitch
I might just sing on this shit
Might sing on a bitch
I might sing on this shit
I might just sing on this shit


And I only fuck with thick hoes
White hoe, let's go, that's my type though
White hoe, let's go, white hoes
And I only fuck with-
Let's go

And I only fuck with rich hoes
And I only fuck with thick hoes
White hoe, let's go
White hoe, let's go
And I only fuck with thick hoes
And I only fuck with thick hoes
Black hoe, let's go
Black hoe, let's go

She just need a nigga oh with a check though
Moving too slow move to the left hoe
Moving too slow move to the left hoe
Hurry up, we hoppin' on this jet though
And I only fuck with thick hoe
I'm a skinny nigga you see these tight clothes
Piped up, yeah I'm piped hoe
Come and get piped for the night hoe
Designer drugs and I need some ice hoe
A lot of hoes yeah I need some condoms
Fuckin' with young Carti you'll get high hoe
You riding too slow, are you high hoe
Are you high hoe
Come and sip some drank pop some pills, come get high hoe
We been on a jet, we so high, we on fly mode
I be flexing on these niggas, pop, but they pop mode
With my eyes closed
I'm on bang bros
I got hella hoes, I got hella hoes
Got that nasty flow
She get nasty though...

And I only fuck rich hoe
And I only fuck with thick hoes
White hoe, let's go
White hoe, let's go
And I only fuck with thick hoes
And I only fuck with thick hoes
Black hoe, let's go
Black hoe, let's go

Hoe I'm flexed up
Lookin' like who next up, called your face up
I just got my check up, got my cash up
You can't get no check cause, get your bands up
Face down, ass up
Walk around the club with your hands up
Walk around the club I'm no dancer
Keep that pole on me, I might just blam yah
Keep that pole on me I told him man up
Walk inside that bitch, I made them stand up
I'm a walkin' lick bitch where your camera
If she want that whole thing I give her sample
The way I stole that bitch, like where your man go
Fuckin' on this bitch inside the bando
Suckin' on this dick they use no hands though
I just turned this bitch into my main hoe

And I only fuck rich hoe
And I only fuck with thick hoes
White hoe, let's go
White hoe, let's go
And I only fuck with thick hoes
And I only fuck with thick hoes
Black hoe, let's go
Black hoe, let's go

And I only fuck rich hoe
And I only fuck with thick hoes
White hoe, let's go
White hoe, let's go
And I only fuck with thick hoe
And I only fuck with thick hoes
Black hoe, let's go
Black hoe, let's go

Yeah my main hoe, take that dirty money hoe
To the bank hoe
First you flip a birdy hoe, make a name hoe
I go seven-thirty hoe
On the drank hoe (Ooh, lean)
Like what you drank, hoe?
I pour up that pink hoe, Easter Pink though
All up in my Styrofoam, I'm on lean hoe
She say she so lonely doe
Lean on me hoe
I might give your bitch the bone, not no leash, hoe
I just want lil' dome, from a freak hoe
I ain't with the cuffin' hoe, that ain't me hoe
I just like to press a hoe, like that me hoe
Feelin' in yo' chest hoe, that's OG hoe
Think I need a G4, this for me hoe
Designer shit, no cheap clothes
You a thief hoe
I throw out the bank roll
Then that thang go
(Yah!)


Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Aye oh

I was brought up different
So my vision different
Yeah, my bitches different
Ridin' 'round tinted
I can't fuck with niggas
I go get it nigga
How I live it nigga
I can't kick it with you
They say that I changed
Went and copped a chain
Went and copped them thangs
Weight all in my name
Fuck me for my fame
Fuck me for the fame
Weight all in my name
Weight all in my name

Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas

I can't kick it with you, I be with the mob
All we do is ball, we don't give a fuck
All these niggas want our swag 'cause we go to hard
Swag surfin' on these niggas you can't be a part
And that Ricky down to my toes and heart
Goyard round my waist and it hold the Glock
Poppin' tags, poppin' bags it ain't hard
I got bops, I got thots in the lot

Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas
Boss up on these niggas


Sick bois don't die, they fresh to death
My shoes bright blue, so you watch my step
My hoody hot pink with the hat to match
So you ain't gotta know where my paper at
Pop tags 'cause I'm filthy, apes can bathe me
My home is the dirty but I shine like crazy
My hat tag up and it hang off slightly
My game 8-bit so you niggas can bite me
Nike like me cause my life is great
I'm married to the game, we should consummate
Brand new hoodies the color of light sabers
My name ain't Luke, but that dude date Leias
With fly ass sneakers
Bump them speakers
Pump this groove till your ear start bleedin'
White girls shake it till the black dudes notice
Black girls shake it so you can regain focus

Swag it out, swag it out

Let's get one thing straight, I'm no average rapper
Born in SoCal, then I hit Atlanta
Then to New York, I'm an army brat
And I learn new things all across the map
In Cali I was small taught need to be strong
And Atlanta had the hawk so I learned how to ball
New York had Starks on the New York Knicks
So when they came around I had my first round pick
And now I'm so sick that they call me Ebola
Sick girls all on my pole like totem
Life is a gamble, your boy done told 'em
Play your cards right like it's Texas hold 'em
Bounce dem shoulders, go ahead Bankhead
I can do it better even though I'm stone mountain
Georgia's on my mind, but I live in New York
So I got Southern Drawl and I limp when I walk
They used to say a nigga lame when I started to rap
No them fake fuck niggas askin' me for a track
Pokin' me on facebook tryin' to be my friend
Nigga you get your face took you ask me one more 'gain
I'm a genius, why they call the shit G-mail man
This is my space nigga, you can't make top ten
Explain


This that, fire!

It's your man Bambino, Sick Boi thriller
King of fly rappers, there ain't none iller
I'm into fly sneakers, colors like Gullies
So if you don't know me by now: "You's a dummy"
It's the Sick Boi anthem, girls take your coats off
Get the champagne, pop the cork like Sosa
Make some mimosas, get like me
Spanish girls holla say, "Aye papi"
Ooh la la, on the French Riviera
These other boys sandals, straight club benders
We some go-getters, you should know better
Your girl think 'bout me while she drivin' a Jetta
Used to blast Kelly Clarkson, now she a sick girl
Hot pink shirt and them lime green sneakers
Take a quick picture, put me on blast
Call the fireman, he need to come fast
I'm on fire

They call me Sick Boi 'cause they know I'm so sick
Purple on my starter cap, yellow on my kicks
Haters talkin' shit, they think they so slick
And if you don't like my style: "Eat a dick"
I'm a younger Denzel, say it ain't so
I'm all puffed up like I'm made of afros
But my neck ain't froze, where's the boy's jewelery?
Don't need it nigga, clothes bright, shine beautifully
Used to sport Airs then I had to get Grind
Now I look great, now I'm top of the line
Used to go hungry when I'd buy them new shoes
Now I'm like "Mm... food" like MF Doom
Busy makin' moves like my name was Tetris
Money in the bank, you can check my mattress
Bright like Mantis and I ain't selfish
I got the game shook like a young black Elvis
Fire


I'm a diamond in the rough
Everybody knows the score
Bambino on top
And them haters claymore
"But the people want more!"
And I'mma give it to 'em
I was born a winner
All I had to do was show 'em
My hoodie canary yellow
But I'm bright on my own
Most haters out there take naps like combs
I never sleep, I'm always on my grind
I never eat, unless a rapper spit a rhyme
Sick girls jockin', haters keep hatin'
They pissed off 'cause I'm more eli than peyton
'Cause I'm the underdog, which means I'm under, dog
I'm not a nigga who mows snow like santa claus
I'm just a nigga with watermelons instead of balls
'Cause I work from the bottom to the top
I used to be lost like lot
Haters got a shook core like pac, get it?

Said the proof is in the pudding
The secret's in the sauce
I ain't gotta tell nobody why they call me the boss
Said the proof is in the pudding
The secret's in the sauce
I ain't gotta tell nobody why they call me the boss

I'm a winner (I'm a winner) (x8)

He work hard for the money, but it ain't about cash (oh oh, oh oh)
Life's a schoolyard, I ain't gettin' picked last (oh oh)
Better think fast, there's a pop quiz (oh oh, oh oh)
On which nigga get popped before his 25th (ooh)
Y'all niggas need to learn to live, life is awesome
Open up your own store, get a house in boston
I know it's not easy, it takes some drive
Some niggas get desperate like the housewives
And they only see fortune, they don't see wealthy
You can lose a fortune, wealthy is healthy
You can't lose wealth, it's everywhere
The world's made of brewster's
There's millions here
But if you richard pryor, they having the cash you get
And hard work and hoping and your faith is set
I know the world's tough
I was just like you
I used to eat lay's, now my chips are blue...

I said the proof is in the pudding
The secret's in the sauce
I ain't gotta tell nobody why they call me the boss
Say the proof is in the pudding
The secret's in the sauce
I ain't gotta tell nobody why they call me the boss

I'm a winner (I'm a winner) (x8)

Two step (two step) (x4)
Now bounce it out (bounce it out) (x4)
Fade (fade) (x4)
Walk it out (walk it out) (x4)
Go 'head (x16)
Yeah!


Is it really that bad that my clothes is tight?
That I hydrate babes like Pedialyte
That I stay rock hard like a meteorite
But your homeboy here was an idiot right?
Well, ya thought wrong, I got flavor
I rock shows with the blue lightsaber
I hit dimes but also date eighters
I make moves, blow up like Al-Qaeda
I'm in kicks that you can't buy yet
Ya kicks okay like your name Wyatt
Care Bear Clockers, pink highlighters
Haters wanna snack my heat like firefighters
Boys out there think they just like me
Naw naw, y'all funny, y'all from UCB?
Y'all standin' in line, I'm in VIP
Y'all know shit 'bout me like TIP, hah!

Ooh, bum bumbumbum bum bumbumbum

(Verse 2: MC Chris)
Think your voice's funny man, that's kind of hilarious
I'm the rapper makin' noise when there's shadow in your area
I'm like a ? 'cause I'm a little aquaceous
I do it for the hotties with the bodies bodacious
I'm high pitched, might flip if ya diss my node
Think Chris ain't the shit, you can kiss my chode
Weak ass sales, not too early to boast
Seriously bro, hand over the security code
Because my rhymes so fresh, green grocers' gotta spray 'em
Fired all my lawyers 'cause I didn't wanna pay 'em
From the PM to the AM I'll slay 'em with the sawed-off
Make a little money and I'll smoke the marijuana
MC without Glover is Matubb without Wigs
Jam and peanut butter with the crust cut off for kids
One smokes Khan, the other smokes Mids
Let's mix it up a little like the DJ did
Bacardi and Coke, black and white cookie
Smokin' in the alley cause you know we're playin' hooky
We're up to no good, please don't tell our mamas
? 'Cause we got this for Obama

Sick of the old yellow, money like bank tellers
The chicks that I'm with are thicker thank Nutella
Y'all need to switch quick and get with a slick fella
'Cause I'm bout to go Rihanna like I'm an Umbrella
Come over to my place, we can cut like shears
And make some mistakes like Jamie Lynn Spears
I'm nasty? No. Forward? Yes
I'm hip to the game, you're a rook like chess
My money so long that they call it John Silver's
Your money so light that it float like pillows
Oopsy, killers, you can see
They close up shop when the clerks see me
I'm not Kanye, but my collar's popped
Cause the bro's like soda, I shit you not
This shit's bright orange, Fanta shade
You got the yellow face, that's my lemon aide
I'mma try to stay tight like girls that fuck hard
Stay in the Bay with green like Brett Farve


Gin in my cup, so I ain't so sober
Girl on my dick, call me Cassinova
Real talk (?), my name is Oprah
My girl talk too but she deal in (?)
Got the gold top like I'm one of the Brady's
Birthday shit on the side, (get that quick) Mercedes

'Scuse me ladies! I know you wanna shoot me
Like my name's Jay Brady, but the camera's (?)
I wanna eat good Iike Rachel Ray
(Pop tags on) shoes (?)
My voice too high 'sposed to hold me back
They say the same fucking thing 'cause I'm young and black

Opposites attract
So not far from me is white dude with low voice and no money
Who gives a fuck if my voice sound funny
Fuck friends, I got me a bi-buddy
I'm true life Iike I'm MTV
Hollyhood like I'm six times three

(I been goin') so crisp, get dressed in a fly ass t-shirt
Nike so tight they make your fuckin' feet hurt
Jealous ass niggas when they see you rollin'
Same motherfucker on (?) scrotum
My sneaks so bright, and my girls so thick
Money so big call me Cici's dick

Calling all haters all across the world it's a (red alert)
It's a (red alert), it's a
Calling all haters all across the world it's a (red alert)
It's a (red alert), it's a

I shine so bright they should call me sunlight
Call me punk rock cause my jeans is too tight
Diesel boo boo, (?) jacket
Got one e'ry week. It's a nasty habit
(?) And ups, that my standard
Show 'em who's boss like Tony Danza
Take it across state get the nasty plate
(?) Sex why I masturbate
It's the dude from the hood that you love to hate
'Cause I got new shoes and I love to skate
Me and Lupe got it kick push
To show these pussy ass niggas why we fuck they bush
I used to have to sweep floors just to make the ends meet
The ends meetin' like a motherfucker. Ain't that sweet?
Why I'm deep with the kids like Phish on myspace
Now I'm on your fish scales like I hang with Ghostface
They say black don't crack, except for Whitney
My shit don't crack, I fall off like Britney
To put it simply, I lose my balance
'Cause I got a pink drink and it makes me tipsy
Live the high life, make the full price
You want my advice to get the five mics
You wanna put them fake ass guns away
Nah, I'm just kiddin' nigga, you ain't got a chance anyway


(Verse 1: Childish Gambino)
My name's Bambino, I'm always in trouble
I do stupid shit on a dare like double
Think your games tight, I'mma bust your bubble
I shop at Gucci and Barneys like rubble
Scope like Hubble, quick like chunnel
I leave MC's in the dark like tunnel
Men do huddles, girlfriends cuddle
Eh heh, all right

(Hook: Childish Gambino)
My hoodie on glow
My hoodie on glow
My hoodie on glow
My hoodie on glow
My hoodie, my my my hoodie on glow
My hoodie, my my my hoodie on glow

(Verse 2: Childish Gambino)
My hoodie so dope, my hoodie so tight
My hoodie in school cause my hoodie so bright
Welcome, my nigga, to color, Crayola
Got the bright purple, like a grape soda
Nigga I told you, my hoodie no joker
Walk up in the hoodie to a party like toga
Breathe like yoga, get off my scrotum
The color of my hoodie like a Lisa Frank folder
I'm at the Kid Robot, my wallet done shown up
They had five hoodies, but this shit done sold out
Spent too much, I know a bad habit
My hoodie look like a shit from a Trix rabbit

(Verse 3: Chaz Kangas)
Y'all know I'm a hoodie all pro
Find me in my hoodie like a hoodie Waldo
Rocking Amadeus like a hoodie falco
Staying self-absorbed like I'm Frida Kahlo
From the playground, with the sports team on it
To the old folks home, put some morphine on it
I rock my hoodie whether rain or shine
Over-priced in a Sam Goody frame of mind
Got a pouch in the front that holds my CDs
And warms my hands when it's too breezy
Believe me, the quickest way to get hurt
Is if I catch you calling it a hooded sweatshirt

(Hook x2: Chaz Kangas and Childish Gambino)


Go [x8]
Well wait a minute!
Go [x8]
Wait a minute!
Go [x4]
I'm so fresh~!
Go [x4]
Wait a minute! [echoes]

Childish Gambino:
Starter cap bro, gone with the hologram
I be the rich folk's hoe like a Ottoman
I got weed in my hand like a homey can
A throwback like a bitch throw Radaman
I'm fire! All I need is the breaks though
I make noise in the streets like a brake toe
But that's high, so I'm gettin' my fade low
I make movies with my lover like J-Lo
I'm livin' so shiny, ya boy on top
A life on trap, a nigga can't stop
I'm Weird like Al, I'm Strange like Love
I wear hot pink cause it fit like glove
I'm easy on the eyes; I'm hard on a hater
My hoodie light saber, like Darth Vader
I'm always with a chick cause a nigga so sick
Need an "Entourage" quick so you can hug it out bitch

(Chorus: repeat with ad libs)
I'm so fresh! [oh yeah, oh oh]

Childish Gambino:
I'm so fresh like a "Sick Boi" oughta be
I'm not tryin' that shit, just a part of me
I'm easy, like a Sunday morning
I go to rap battles and I end up yawning
I'm fresh like TexMex in Arizona
Got my gold on forever like my name Ramona
I can't be a loser, the shit don't suit me
A nigga Joe Cool and you niggaz just Snoopy!
You can go sue me, try to do outdo me
I look so fresh that I killed George Clooney
I guess you can call me "The Perfect Storm"
I'm the reason why your new baby brother was born
A nigga so tore call me Natalie
'Cause I love makin' music but they mad at me
I make money, blow shows like a syndicate
Out to be who I gotta be, that's the end of it!


Childish Gambino:
S-I-C-K B-O-I
You should come join us, nigga we so fly
Highlighter colors, brand new sneaks
Sick Bois stick together in a pinch like cheeks
We the new lost boys - I'm Peter Pan
'Cause I bring the bright green Tinkerbell in my hand
We can run "House Parties" - my name ain't Play
But youse a Kid, you should be on your way
Cut this like barkers, hoodies like Parkers
Haters on my dick, take a bite like sharkers
I'm a stay weirdo, I'm a straight hero
Haters want me stop makin' numbers like zero
I'm a get flyer, numbers get higher
You would stop movin, like a black tire
I'm not "The Wire" but I'm like Michael
Custom birdie green, they on dookie like fire

We the Sick Boi clique [x8]
Sick Boi till I die [x8]

Childish Gambino:
I'm sick like a hospital, whether you're in pain or not
I'm crazy like a swastika, inside of a bagel shop
I'm the Juggernaut, bitch~! Unstoppable
Think of me as hurricanes cause rappers are incomparable
Most of y'all insufferable, soundin like a bored scratch
Rappers are like ants to me, I stab 'em in the thorax
Lyrically a metaphor, Atlanta's only troubador
Face it, only seen by a few like a unicorn
I'm a try to get my swagger right, like I'm Dolemite
Spread it all around to the kids like it's Vegemite
Get the proper etiquette, bitch you from Connecticut!
I'm a try to modify the subject like a predicate
I'm not the best rapper but I'm better than you
You with a big pickle like your name was Stu
I'm a Sick Boi, that's just how we do
Even your name's a game like you DJ Clue

Sick Boi till I die [x16]


Girl show your wobble out
I'm not Queen Latifah but I set it off
I'm lookin' like a tight rainbow, Cangos
Got my blue rules
Lookin' like candy so I'm goodie two shoes
Call me Sproose Goose cause my clothes so fly
I'm not Howard Hughes, but I'm not a sane guy
I'm a Big Mac, you just a small fry
Tryin' so hard to get that swagger like mine
I got them steps on my head I guess my mind wanders
Try to emulate my lifestyle like condoms
I'm fly on the mic, I'm fly as a DJ
I keep a thick chick on the wire like Wee Bey
He say she say that I'm so handsome
And play keep away from his girl like ransom
Sorry that your girls all heroes like Sylar
You know I'm from the south, I stay dirty like Tyler

So sick wit it that they call me Ebola

My boom box handy, blastin' that stink
You can Marcus like Camby they call me the Tech
Cause nobody can touch me, I'm fire with a fade
I ain't a lazy boy but I'm always gettin' laid
I'm jack of all trades I can do no wrong
I make a huge fart and it sound like a song
I talk jibber jabber and it comes out words
I shit out diamonds, you flossin my turds
I don't like ice... a little bit of gold and I'm nice
The Cool Kids understand my plight
I'm a simple Sam, I'm only sick wit it cause that's who I am
I keep that shit slick like my name was Pam
And even if I didn't
I'd be the flyest nigga drivin' around in a Civic
And for those who didn't get it you should play it back
I'm sick like a dog on crack, for realer


Mapquest where the place is
Gats in they faces
Then we fold them up and put them back in they cases
Assassins replace expressions on faces
And hard eyes on gangsters with hot gaping spaces
Hands full of aces, pockets on swole
Glassy-eyed aiming from my own grassy knoll
Leave JFK's head just a big smoky hole
To console Jackie O she could smoke my pole
It's called Camelot 'cause she came a lot
And a lot of you rappers sound the same a lot
And the game is still out there if you play or not
And I'm the King of Queens, Kevin James is not
I quit my temp job 'cause I can't let a day go
Tomorrow's moguls are delivering your bagels
I hope your trophy wife been practicing her kegels
'Cause when we take the game we won't leave you any Legos
There go the kid with his dirty white sneakers on
Dreaming on a way to get his penthouse on Bleecker on
Give your girl head, call you with the speaker on
Horse head in your bed, now you know who you sleeping on
Are you seeing what I'm seeing?
This booth is a crime scene
Chalk off the mic, the kill screen is my screen
No need to terrify or pop shots at witnesses
They only testified they know what hot shit this is

(Hook (x2): Childish Gambino)
True assassins
Hold your glass up
Them's the type of niggas that'll cut yo ass up
Whether it be tracks or verses
Chains or purses
Them the type of niggas that'll make you stop

(Verse 2: Nick Packard)
Classic assassin
Straight from Central Castin'
I bust through your abode with both barrels blastin'
I crush up your skull like a truck that you crashed in
I'm never gonna die like I'm Tuck Everlasting
Never thought that I'd carry an AK
All I ever wanted to be is Farley, Ferrell, or Fey
And maybe some day that dream will come true
But for now I got my gun and I'm aiming at you (Hey!)
In your house on your couch while you're readin'
I got no flow, it's more like breakthrough bleedin'
But I'm into cartoons and I'm really not sane
All I leave of your body is a Pinky and the Brain (Uh!)
I'm more Manson than a small-time crook
When it comes to taking lives I steal like Dane Cook
Bitch, take a look, you know it's in a book
Even LeVar Burton's Roots get shook

(Verse 3: Childish Gambino)
Ah, ah, you can call me assassin, I kill Versace
I walk too much, gotta Gucci watch me
The illest of the killers you can tell by my fashion
Light hoodie to bright sneaks it's all matchin'
I kill rappers, I don't need no stealin'
If I do lose a battle I'mma kill 'em for real
I'm just kidding, or am I?
Things get real in the City of L.I
That's right, I live in Queens
The borough of the lost
I hate the fuckin' yuppies but I love how much it costs
Call me in the winter and the spring to play tennis
And they give me strange looks 'cause I floss like a dentist
I'mma finish this sentence then get me a rope
So I got a little dough and I'm fresh like Scope
A nigga so dope, I got the new Pumas
That never take a bath so I call 'em homeschoolers
Numbers like rulers, I'm tired of it all
I sleep in the club and I yawn when I ball
I'm off the hook like phone calls
Where's kidrobot?
I need a new hoodie hot pink like doughnuts
The kids is Go-Gurts when they see my Gobstoppers
I'm not Mekhi Phifer, but I got Clockers
Transform a watch when I don't got diamonds
Boy, did you hear what I said like Simon?
I kill boutiques
Just snatch the new sneak
I'mma do it every week
I'm a serial killer
Beats like Dilla
Hun like 'tilla
It's the Sick Boi thrilla (Yeah, mon!)

(Hook (x2): Childish Gambino)


You're my babydoll
I'll hold you closer
I'll hold you closer
Just like I'm supposed to
Know I got what you need (x4)

I'm a weird dude, but you like me
Give other girls shocks like Nikes
I know I'm always on the road you can type me
And if you don't do that you can Skype me
I'm a big kid, and you know that
But it don't make me happy so we blow that
Can I make time? I don't really know
'Cause I see you're pissed off when I go to shows
I never really had a girl like this
But I ain't never had a girl who could keep interest
The things that I do, the things that I wanna be
I know I'm hardheaded, can't see things in front of me
I'm gonna be the best, you can believe that
So try an understand when I have to leave that
When I'm done, I'ma give you the call
Don't ya know sugar, you my sugar babydoll

I love you both, can't you tell?
I love her lights, I love the smell
But I think you kinda know I got a girl on the side
She pay for my house and she pay for my ride
She give me nice things and she make me feel good
She give me a little cash and I spend on you
She my sugar mama only with her for the money
But you know it's untrue 'cause I talk about her funny
Saturday night's, I'm supposed to be with you
But instead I'm in bed with the stage and the crew
She laughs at my jokes, she tells me I'm cute
She tells me if we together we make a little loot
But I know I couldn't have her if I didn't have you
And I know sometimes I don't make curfew
Ya know I'd never, ever, ever try to hurt you
I'm a just try to do what I gotta do


I ain't your ordinary nigga
Look around, this ain't what ordinary gets ya

I ain't your ordinary nigga
Look around, this ain't what ordinary gets ya

Gam-B, the one like Neo
You didn't see it coming
Reverse Miss Cleo
I'm C-P30
Or better yet Anakin
When it comes to lightsaber's that I'm handlin
I used to be king of the whack look
Now I stay king of the mac book
Yes mac book, where you write your numbers down
Yeah boy, I got girls in and out of town
You got it wrong like saying OJ;IJ
Stop the rumors
Asian girls don't got sideways
I gotta fuck every shade of latte
I gotta flow like my mouth to Kanye's
These niggas think that I'm playing, I ain't saying nothing
I'll fuck your girl on the burner
I'm so top stuffing
You can't stop nothing, I'm the juggernaut
That's why your B's sweet on me like I'm butterscotch
Yeah we run a lot
Boy the track runners here
I'm Elroy we jet sun out the atmosphere
Let me make it clear
I'm your inner fear
And I'm taking over, please don't interfere

Uh I'm the streets desire
Your getting too old man, please retire
Don't make me carry you like I'm liar liar
Bring the heat like a monster, I'm Elmo's fire
I'm too busy spittin' shit with a socialite
I'm too busy sittin' bitch with some model types
Yes sir my girl's look like Rihanna twice
With some packed bags, yeah, they ain't going home tonight
Get your camera phone, prove ya seen me
Or else you'll be with friends like "Please believe me!"
I'm all that, I'm Kel and Kenan
Nigga, I come hard like I'm filled with semen
These rappers bore me
Gun talk with black clothes
Y'all let me know when y'all let 1998 go
Y'all niggas scared to grow
I'm never scared to go
Anywhere that's new, I go outside, y'all niggas stay at home
But that's all right dude
I'm a special guy
Y'all been wanting to rap since you were ankle high
And I've been wanting to rap since like what, 05?
Do the math man, how are you one of the best alive?
Gam-B, yes me, best out there
Trying to get universal like healthcare
So fresh, so clean, like a new pair
When you get to the top what you do there?


I'm cooler than an ice cube, yeah I'm rude
'Bout to get your head sliced, yeah I'm nice
And you 'bout to pay the price
Like The Price Is Right, but I'm not Bob Parker
Yes, I get down like I'm Charlie Parker
Meaning that I'm musically inclined
If you try to get with mine I'm about to blow yo head back
Get another bullet and I spray bullet (bullet)
And I spray back, pop, pop, click, click (drop, drop) down
Now they lookin' for your body like all over the town
Niggas, my name Gambini, I used to be clean
Now I'm dirty martini, 'cause this boy met world like Feeny
These niggas make wishes like genie

Nigga you know how we do
Latinos, black people, and gringos
This money stained my fingers like Cheetos
Blast it out your speakers like keedoh
'Cause I can barely hold it all in like Speedos
These niggas got a lot of nerve
These niggas got a lot of speaks
And all these skinny bitches busy shop at Anthropologie
Who you tryin' to be?
I'mma take my girls to BIM and treat 'em like a VIP
Because I am a G, ugh (G, ugh)
I start the party like Chex Mix
Put it in your house like Netflix
Beat, nigga, it's what's for breakfast
Y'all niggas got beef with this kid
Y'all niggas' punks and stay punks like the Misfits
I'm way off in the distance
Y'all done lost the race like McCain
But like McCain, you used to be cool but now you lame
It's hard to maintain ain't it?
Because I am so much better (than before)

My swag is so sick, you might catch it
I'm tired of fuckin' 'round with little kids like I'm Brad Pitt
These little kids need to play in traffic
'Cause all they was was make a nigga giggle like mad-libs
I'm hot like an attic in the summer
And girls scream "Sick Boi" like we know each other
But we don't know each other, you ain't my fucking brother
We need to separate like organic peanut butter
My lightsaber flashing, my kneecaps ashyExplain
And girls of the world used to walk right past me
Now I hang with girls like my girl Kate Perry
I might have to marry Kate like my name Ashley
These rappers don't know what they up against
They can't see a nigga like my names Snuffleupagus
If you don't like my shit, why the fuck you bumpin' this?
I am so much better (than before)
You better get it clean good 'cause this the last straw
And break inside house and leave your gas on
Nigga, we NASA, 'cause we 'bout to blast off
Go in the bathroom, we see you peein' like I'm Shasta McNasty
Get it? UPN? Shasta McNasty?
Nigga, I'm a master
And I'm fucking plastered
I don't need a fucking beat for this, I can make my shit up
While I go here's the part that I'm about to show ya

I'm the best 'cause I gotta
The devils wears Prada
And he's got a boom boom like Welcome Back, Kotter
Leave your guy like my daughter
Got cheese like frittata, greed, and filata
Got ya, mama
Most rappers want the drama, but I don't want the drama
I just want a quiet night down at Benihana
I rap 'cause I gotta
Dude's got nada
I make 'em all proud like my middle name Obama


(Verse 1: Billy Scafuri)
One, two, three, check it out

On the road to sandwiches and chicken wings
Phat people do phat things
Using salt and pepper for their seasonings
Phat people do phat things
Check it out

It's B to the I to the double L-Y
My friends all know I'm not an ordinary guy
I like little things, like chicken wings
BBQ sauce, honey mustard, onion rings

And when my cell phone rings it goes jingle-jing
I say hello, I say hello, I say who this be?
They say it's Fancy Ned, I got a fancy head
I'll eat a fancy ass sandwich on some fancy ass bread

(Verse 2: Childish Gambino)
The wait is over, shut up, bend over
I hang with bar stools, I chill with Grover
The boy Ebola, my boy phat too
And my girl so phat that they call her Oprah

I got that green like a bowl of okra
Loose change so phat can't fit my sofa
I head to the bank, call the shit my grocer
It's Sex in the City, get the phat mimosa

Me and B, we phat boys, hang with phat girls
Driving phat toys, fuck Dan Aykroyd
I'm live on a Saturday night
I got two phat girls, I'm doing it right

Like my name John GoodmanExplain
I got the phat crib so I'm doing real good, man
And I'm up to no good, man
This is how I get phat, call the shit cooking

Phat people do phat things

(Verse 3: Billy Scafuri)
I tip waitresses, I tip scales
My style is kind of phat like an Orca whale
I'm sipping whole milk as I stare
Thinking I can be your Oprah, you can be my Gail

'Cause I am a phat boy, never been to Bally's
Married to this phat life, call me Kirstie Alley
Married to the snack life, counting every calorie
Might just open up a phat boy art gallery

(Verse 4: Childish Gambino and Billy Scafuri)
What else you do, B?
I'll make it easy
What else you do, B?
For girls to squeeze me

I'm phat but my numbers run
Listen son, I'mma show them how it's done
When my swagger weighs a ton
Stickin' straws inside of girls, you can call me the Capri Sun

(Verse 5: Childish Gambino)
I make the girls drip, so I guess I eat Gushers
Screaming out yeah like I'm eating out Usher
In your dad's bedroom where I fuck you
Knockin' on the door, so you're screaming out "nothing"
But they all know it's something
You didn't think I'd tear the pussy up, did you pumpkin?
But better and better like Benjamin Button

(Verse 6: Billy Scafuri)
I hang out with Chester Cheeto
Cooler than the ranch on your Dorito
Hotter than the peppers in your burrito
Getting cheddar and cream, if you know what I mean

(Verse 7: Childish Gambino)
Yeah, I know what you mean, home girl mistaken
She think Gambino won't bring home bacon
Or bring home Swiss cheese, my dough got holes
Cause all these hoes want shoes and nice clothes

They want the Macy's, the Neiman Marcus
The Fendi purses, the Gucci parkas
I know you want it, don't get me started
They see Gambino and they act retarded

Phat people do phat things

(Outro: Billy Scafuri)
Eat snacks, mother fucker, eat snacks
Eat snacks, mother fucker, eat snacks
Eat snacks coming out of packs
Guaranteed to put a little fat on your back
Eat snacks


(Hook: MC Chris)
I am the awesome
You see me flossin', watch me walk upon your face
Make that incision
I leave you itchin' just to join my monster race
Say I'm just messin'
Yeah well I'm pissed and I can keep an even key
You think you know me
But you can blow me cause you don't know how I feel

(Verse 1: Childish Gambino)
It's Childish Gambino, ho
What you know about that?
Niggas 'fraid to go outside, they some house cats
'Cause if they see me, they might have to act right
I'm livin' life right, like I got a past life
Boy I got a flashlight
Check my fuckin' hoodie skin
Like God was makin' light and threw my hoodie in
Bambi, naw nigga that's my pseudonym
Call me Elroy
Nigga we some hooligans
And just in case, I keep a million in the glove box
Blast this shit from in your car to make the hood rock
Ice cold, bright colors, like a juice pop
And if you try to touch my shit I'll make your juice pop
Yes I get a two spot just for fuckin' showin' up
Boy it's me, T.N.T., boy I'm blowin' up
Nigga throw it up
Boy, I am the awesome
Call me Elroy
Or Mr. "Hey, how much it cost him?"

(Hook: MC Chris)

(Verse 2: MC Chris)
Okay!
Rackin' 'em, stackin' 'em, packin' these ballers
Readin' these, beatin' these hoes like Carver
Whittle like cardboard, steady like barbers
I'm back and forth from the front to the starboard
Back up Marlin, it's only a suit
Like high torch 'cause he ain't get the boot
Like fly gossip, birds in the zoo
Cause the underground sound I'm reiteratin through
Once I'm in the mad loop, what a real man do
With a cannibalistic crew, when they runnin' on the loose
Can't handle the truth, like a fart to a scoop
Put my hand on the mic and my mind on the loot
Crime to duke, ridin' away
I'm a dick snub that you bothered to say
I get krunk then the car pull away
Now don't get sick got the shit on spray, okay?


Yes, I'm Mr. Big Stuff
Yeah, my stuff big, man
Keep a girl's pussy bright red like a pig's tan
Four shots and watch me lean like a kick stand
I really need to change my name to, "Hey, I'm a big fan."
Cause that's all I hear when I'm outside
And my hoodie's never jealous of that tie-dye
Cheesy on the mic, like I'm laying on Jordan
No homo for you niggas homophobic

Yes, I back bend these girls aerobic
And these hoes got a Spiderman like Tobey
Keep these girls wet, call them Lakers like Kobe
Got money trees, asking me, "Do you row me?"

Latin girls kiss my feet like they're superguh
Latin girls see your face and call you "Stupida."
Yes my name is Childish, so I guess I'm cheesy
Yes yes yes my wallet's cheesy
Throw your hood up, are you queasy?

Yes, I am the Juggernaut
Yes, my name is Elroy
Yes, my dick will make that ho tell, like a bell boy
And I get my tip, and my tip is in your girl
And I'm gonna bust a nut like I'm a Gallagher squirrel

It's the man of the hour
Better yet, the century, check the whiskey sour
Lookin' like I'm drinkin' piss
How's he fuckin' thinkin' this
Easy, I'm a mentalist, but I'm not on CBS

Uh, yes it's me Bambe
What is your daughter to do?
I've been doing this ever since Harry Potter was new
Boy! I don't play, I change games, I am too real
So my words stay hard like a blue pillExplain

I like pink, it always looks good on me
And I like pink, it always looks good on me
That second part I was talking about vagina, homie
Fuck the game at an early age, now there hymen on me

Yes, I am a magnet
Yes, I do attract it
Remember when these fake ass niggas called me faggot?
'Cause I had glasses and a pink track jacket
Now those things are assets to help me get some asses
Now these nerdy hoes keep asking me to smash it
Bullies from middle school chatting on my Twitter status
Fuck you, you don't get shit from now on
Unless you got a demo tape, then I can lay some brown on

It's the B to the AMBI, colors like candy
Nigga, I'm the Army. I'm being all I can be
Yes I dress dandy. Get a clue, like the Clandy
I live hard, I never sleep in, like an Amby

This is for the niggas thinkin' different
While their friends are flippin' pigeons in they're stay po-pimpin'

He never lets the best go past him
My life says yes like it's having orgasms


Girl, I messed up real bad
I'm looking back on the days that we both had
I go to bed and I dream so hard
Of little mixed kids running in the front yard
I need you close, I need your kiss
I never ever, ever, ever knew a love like this
I, miss you more than puffy missed b.i.g
I didn't think that you would leave a hole this big
In my life, you need to be my wife
I made this song, I hold my pillow tight
And wishin' it was you, what can a nigga do
Fuck this success, fuck these interviews
Fuck these phone calls, girl you are worth it
When I was happy, you were happy, you are perfect
When I was blue, you were blue, you're my smurfette
I put my best chips on the worst bet

Girl, I need you like I need air
And fuck those other honeys, I will be there
I never ever, ever thought that I would be scared
Of living in a world when you're not there
My biggest fear is that you won't give a fuck
When you play this song on your macbook
"Is that cg, yo, he is old news
I'm way too busy with my new dude."
The best time I ever had
Is kissing in my shitty ass kia van
I wish that it was me instead
Feeling all your pain
I know that it is different now
It will never be the same but
I swear to god, our love special
You can be my number 2 like one pencil
Or you can be my number one, I will let you
In on my life, I've changed so much since you
Left, that hotel room
And if you're with another guy, go tell dude
That he can never keep us apart, he needs a better door
He'll always be the guy that you settle for
I'll always be the guy you're s'posed to be with
Where the fuck is cupid when you need him
I'm so sam cooke, I need tea for two
I play sam cooke and I think of you

Baby girl we need to be together
This song ain't for my album
This song is for the better
And even though we living in a city full of strangers
They can see I'm different
They can see my anger
They can see my pain
They can see the way I talk about you
They see the way I living and I won't live long without you
I drink every night, I smoke more too
I guess it's safe to say death or you
I need you more now than I ever did
I'm still the same guy you fell in love with
I need a second chance like I need a prayer
Sometimes I think god just doesn't care
I hope he has a plan for both you and i
So we can be together at a different time
Remember when I come home late
And you'd be crying over some food on a cold plate
I'll never do that shit to you again
You're the most beautiful girl I ever known and my best friend
Baby girl we need to make up
And when I dream of you, I don't want to wake up
And when I don't dream, I don't want to wake up
I'd rather die now than not have your touch
'Cause I miss you so much


I got skinny jeans on, so I got my swagger
I got new kicks and embarrass my?
A skinny tattoo with a paintball space
So a nigga got bounce like a pinball game
I got housewives like my name was bravo
The dude is bueller, the world chicago
I'm hard to follow, ya boy's sick
I'm adam sandler so fuck ya clique
I hang with dogs like michael vick
And ya girls get wet like a glass of quick
Cause your boy stay fresh like a bunch of mints
And I fight this flow like a pacifist
A barrel of monkeys, a house of chimps
I'm way more fun than your boyfriend is
He need new jeans like a accident
Cause your boy right here where the action is, ah!

Don't talk about it
You can live without it
You don't even need to go down?
Don't talk about it
You can live without it
You don't even need to go down?
Cause you were hollerin', hollerin' "oh!"
Hollerin', hollerin' "oh!"
Hollerin', hollerin' "oh!" girl
Cause you were hollerin', hollerin' "oh!"
Hollerin', hollerin' "oh!"
Hollerin', hollerin' "oh!" girl

I said these niggas mad at me like baby boppers
These niggas slept on me like old pajamas
You niggas stay soft like jon secada
And this nigga stay lit like a candelabra
And even if I didn't have a million dollars
I would still have cream like beard papa
Girl I ain't playin' I'll treat ya proper
I got no limits like silkk the shocker
You look too sweet like betty crocker
You could ride in the front, you could meet my partner
My boy in the back, you could meet my partner
But he ain't got a girl so you should bring your partner
Ya boy got books like he made of lockers
The girl got legs like a pair of dockers
Tito chip like empinadas
You should shake that shit till you got maracas

(Break)
If we're together
Can do whatever
I'll make sure that you're close to me
Cause baby girl it's a fantasy
As long as you are here with me tonight

'Cause I want ya
'Cause I need ya girl
'Cause I want ya
'Cause I need ya girl, yeah


(Verse 1: Childish Gambino)
People say I'm crazy, I'm loony, I'm psycho
I like it
I got my shit checked like Nike
Doctor said he'd never seen anything like me
Chances of recovery are nil to not likely
Boy so crazy make your baby mama look sane
Kicking thoughts around like he got a loose brain
I got a whiskey, sour, sober
Until I fall down like it's mid October
Young young Hova
Boy I say, for goodness sake
I'm in my prime like I'm standing on my dinner plate
You niggas innerspace cause you come up Martin Short
I'm so fly I don't need a right wing from Drudge ReportExplain

(Hook x2: Childish Gambino)
Ah! Stay wildin' like me!
My name Bam-B!

(Verse 2: G.E.T.H.)
People say I'm angry
But if you're happy, you're crazy
I'm violent, so I've got a blue belt from Renzo Gracie
Read the news today, oh boy, some kids are dead
Pulled the covers over my head and went straight back to bed
Cause even my good days are generally bad
At my happiest, I'm just slightly less sad
And I get mad if you're glad to be alive
'Cause I had a chance at a happy life
Good mom, good dad
Seriously trust me, you wouldn't wanna be me
The best days of my life involve leftovers and TV
I got almost no friends and I don't know how to handle this
Even the friends I do got are all moving to Los Angeles
Even I'm tired of my whining
Even I don't want no more of me
I whine more than a 3-year old multiplied by Morrisey
Every time I meet someone who wants to be my friend
The first thought that I have is, "Yo what the fuck is wrong with them?"
I go through life with my fists up
But trust me my fists are all
Full of handfuls of Wellbutrin and Risperdal
I'm depressed y'all
Someone please help me (Please help me)
Seriously (Seriously right now)
Help

(Verse 3: Childish Gambino)
I'm good with the N
No not the Nina
Mean I'm good with the hammer so I'll fix your broke heater
And not your bro Keeter
I don't tote guns
I never had white so I never needed one
And the hood respect me, I rose from the ashes
They call me the phoenix in the clear rim glasses
They saw me work with all that work
Now I got my own enterprise, call me Kirk
And I'm born on an air force base, so I'm fly
Move out to Decatur, that's Atlanta's Bed-Stuy
I got that pink like pussy
Got that pussy day and night so they call me Kid Cudi
Bitch!


Uh, they call me the rocker
Uh, yeah, uh-huh, uh

They call me the rocker
I get down like 2Pac and Big Poppa
Some say he too birds, you can't stop him
Niggas got too much beef like two Whoppers
Look at my clockers, it's about time
For a nigga to mature like a glass of fine wine
Ain't no nigga alive can outshine
I get sneaks, but don't pay like I'm crime
I run this bitch, 'cause I'm Will Smith
'Cause I am legend and you just Hitch
Naw, I'm Hitch
'Cause I get bitchesExplain
Well, I got more than one so call me eight Hitches
We ain't got riches, just some nice kicks
So call me Bruce Lee who's dressed in nice shit
Haters think I'm lame and girls think I'm sick
But both of them groups is riding my dick

Yeah, they call me the rocker
Call me Mr. Gambino

Uh-huh, check this out
I'm fly like birds and I spit real shit so my flow like turds
And my words absurd so I turn it all around
So my mouth is my ass and I sit when I'm loud
And I'm black and I'm proud
And I'm white and I'm rich
So fuck it, I'm a martian, I'm Lilo and Stitch
Niggas say I sound like Weezy and shit
Well he the best in the game so what's wrong with that?
Are you trying to tell me that my rhymes is phat?
Call me Usain Bolt 'cause I run the track
Nigga I'm sick of that
Stop comparing me to people
I know my voice funny like my name John Heder
And I'm out of this world and I'm hot like space heaters
And my girl top down so I call her two seater
My iPhone blast like TNT
I text back to home girl, "What you know 'bout me?"
I'm in NYC or in ATL
And my wallet stay fat like Kenan plus Kel
Nigga what's that smell, cause my shit don't stink
Cause my shirt bright blue and my shoes hot pink
And I finish this drink that I call a Twin Tower
Two Bud Lights and a whiskey sour
Where I fall down, that shit is ground zero
Little kids saying, "There goes my hero!"

Hahahaha
They call me the rocker, nigga!
Uh, they call me the rocker
Yo I'm out man


(Intro : Childish Gambino)
It's Childish Gambino, y'all know who it is, how it is and what it do
Mr. Jens Lekman on the track, ladies and gentlemen
For those of you wondering for whom the sample is
All right. Let's do this. Uh-huh

(Verse 1: Childish Gambino)
I'm the sickest Nigga ever, go and tell your ma!
And I got a little liquor like a St. Bernard!
Niggas hold onto Cliffs, like Phylicia Rashad!
'Cause I'm always on the edge, but I don't fall off!
I's a boy in the hoodie and a hat to match!
And the shit bright orange like a pumpkin patch!
And they call me Guy Ritchie 'cause I work with snatch!
And I'm rich, and a guy. Whatch'all think of that?
And the cops stay on me 'cause I'm young and black!
And the boy stay crazy like a pound of crack!
And I'm all that jazz like my name was scat!
College dudes like me too love my name Borat!
And I like my girls thick like chocolate, fat like my wallet
I'm tellin' y'all the truth, like a prophet
And if Gambino on the track, you should copy it
And all y'all Niggas totin' guns need to stop it

I'm so focused. Yeah
I'm so focused. Yeah. (We don't play around like that. Listen.)
We ain't scared a you! Tell them other muthafucka we prepared for you! Ungh!
We ain't scared a you! Tell them other mutha f- we prepared for you! Ungh!

(Verse 2: Truff Syrum)
Before you even know how long this song lasts
You'll be reelin' and feelin' so flabbergasted
Like a fast pass that you can't catch, I'll leave you blasted
Lambasted, like I doused you in acid
I could be takin' some comedy and I'm makin' that tradic
Like I spin, 'cause I hocus, I focus, I'm flippin' it back and now it's magic
And the beat go from cool, like plan is to janet, to dammit!
Cuties cute in to inspect my go-go gadget
Why? 'Cause I spit in split time. It's a sign of a double wear prada I'm reachin'
I'm teachin' 'em for a while that you can't deny I'm alive
So existential, my rhymes are quintessential
I'm an educated black and that's a fact. I'm presidential
One riff, and I'm siftin' through N-s lies
Got a gift to keep my eyes on the prize, you best move to the side
'Cause I'm goin' for the gold, I'm a stone solider
Gambino told you Jokers that I'm so, so, so foc- I'm so FO-cusssssssed

(Verse 3: Childish Gambino)
I'm all grown up, but I'm still Childish
It's crazy to think that all them days is behind us
I remember when n-s tried to stop us
Now them same n-s on my dick and try for profit
This is what I asked for. It comes with the territory
This isn't a cry for help, ain't no pinnochio story
I'm in it just for the glory - I'm in this to win it, babe
Sorry that I came home late


(Hook: Amber Petty)

Starlight
Where did you go?
I've been running around the world
Gotta let you know

(Verse 1: DC Pierson)
I got the empire state now I'm working on the next part
Trying to build an empire, I'm wishing on the Death Star
I murdered the dish, I eloped with the spoon
Tri-coastal and the third coast is the moon
When it hits your eye like a get in your eye thing
And we do the I like you like like you like like thing
I can't promise I won't be dressed like a viking
When I do the whole picking you up on my bike thing
Another white rapper's CD in my spokes
I would swear y'all converted to rap for the jokes
I spit black smoke, I'm the hip hop pope
They make anti-me PSA's 'cause I'm dope
And when it's not clear you can cope, the worlds a negative iPod
You just hear 'nope'
Nights on the pavement, you just stop breathin'
On some Liz Lemon movin' back to Cleveland
Street lights people, up and down the boulevard
Don't stop believin in your journey, and I know it's hard
They call me Violet Beauregard, 'cause I just blow up, no regard
All I really need is a bar to belly up to
A balcony, a star crossed lover to yell up to
So what are you up to? This weekend I'm free
Till then I'll just shine and let you find meExplain

(Verse 2: Childish Gambino)
I shine like the sun
My mouth is a gun, pop off and they run, two things like a pun
This is not just for fun and I cut with my tongue
My mouth's a Swiss army, take over your country
I run like a humvee, I don't need gas-o-line
I run on these rappers so skip the stromboli
I make these niggas say 'Great' like Tony
So how the fuck you gonna say these bitches don't know me?
How the fuck you gonna say these bitches don't know me
When you all on the tip of my dick like Moby
The wait is over, no baking soda
I saw them dudes move bricks and boulders
I saw them dudes move flats and corners
And they moved that sugar like Russell Stover
I got that green like a four leaf clover
Get rich or die tryin' like my name two quarters
Dope boys they get me, we got the same hustle till the tank on empty
And if you dope boy, better watch the Wire
And get the shit straight, turn back, retire
'Cause one in a mil turn snow to fire
You either move weight, play ball or neither
Because I'm neither, the hood Macgyver
The boy blew up like he knew Al Quaeda
My life so sweet that my balls Godiva
The world in front and the hood behind us
The hood behind us
Yeah
The hood behind us


Baby I'm living the dream
With you by my side we work as a team
I know I'm a mac, it's not what it seems
I'm covered in pink, from swimming in green
When I'm eating you like Edy and me
Mama the stars could not intervene
You are a star, I'm keeping it clean
You are the prettiest girl I have seen
What does that mean? It means you're the one
And most of these dudes are just fucking for fun
Girl you know that I would never do that to you
All of the girls that I do must be beautiful
Inside and out, meaning your mouth
Girl I'm just playin', this is what I'm sayin'
If you like real, then give me a go
If you never try, then you'll never know

Ooh it's all right, ooh it's okay
Let them all know that I got this way
'Cause I miss you girl
I wanna be with you, yeah
And if the sun don't come out
Ooh it's okayExplain
Let them all know that I got this way
'Cause I miss you girl
I wanna be with you, yeah
Never, ever, ever let me go
Do you love me? Girl I need to know
'Cause you're my sunshine girl
'Cause you're my sunshine, sunshine, oh
Baby girl, you're always on my mind
Baby girl, it's time to make you mine
'Cause you're my sunshine girl
'Cause you're my sunshine, sunshine, oh

Look, I'm the man to know
I'm the one to give you more
Ma, you got that stupid flow
I talk about moms like Margaret Cho
And I'mma go, minus the "o"
So I'm a g, sportin' a V-
Neck and a check, on my shoes
'Cause I got nothin' to lose, uh
I'm in it to win it
Money so long I get business from Guinness
Diving in green, I'm swimming in spinach
And I'm in the race, who cares about finish?
I got an advantage, and I'm an advantage
I'm ?, you need an advantage
And nothing is heinous so I can work for ya
Couldn't stand out, girl

Ooh it's all right, ooh it's okay
Let them all know that I got this way
'Cause I miss you girl
I wanna be with you, yeah
And when the sun don't come out
Ooh it's okay
Let them know I got this way
'Cause I miss you girl
I wanna be with you, yeah
Never, ever, ever let me go
Do you love me? Girl I need to know
'Cause you're my sunshine girl
'Cause you're my sunshine, sunshine, oh
Baby girl, you're always on my mind
Baby girl, it's time to make you mine
'Cause you're my sunshine girl
'Cause you're my sunshine, sunshine, oh


I do not talk, I am just a rapper

Stompin' on these niggas like a whack-a-mole with no hands
Get girls on the floor like slow jams
Fuck yeah, I'm feelin' myself, no lotion
My light shine bright, no roaches
Nigga, I'm focused
You the one who eyes wrong
Only time I'm worried is when I'm the no-fly zone
'Cause I'm so fly, homes
Fresh like pinecones
Female phone book my iPhone
Margarita bright, meanin' limelight
Nerd girls losin' their shit like prom night
Mouth like a pussy, it can never be too tight
Let me guess, you know a better rapper, you, right?

Bam-B
Sicker than your grandma
Pass the mix-tape to a friend like Chandler
This track is gettin' over written
Sports night, Fanta
Tell 'em that you know me when you runnin' through Atlanta
I am at the top
Whether you want or not
And I am in my prime
I am an autobot
I do not talk a lot
I am just a rapper
Fuck a girl's pussy bright red like snapper

Sick

Yeah, I stay fly like a pelican
Get new kicks everyday like an ottoman
Ex-girlfriends askin' if they get a shot again
I try to call 'em back but there's a lot of them
Someone tell me why these muthafuckers busy hatin' me
Just because I'm rappin' and my style is kinda Japanese
Band of outsiders
Kitsune, APC
Macy's got shit on me

Fuck what you heard like a dick inside alarm clock
I ain't got no jewelry, I leave it at the pawn shop
Two of your chains equals one of my shirts, sir
You got Jacob's Jeweler, I got Anna Wintour
Niggas jealous 'cause I got more green than seven splinters
I'd rather spend that money on a polo from La Tigra
Young, smart, and handsome
Who could even ask for more?
I change the situation like auditioning for Jersey Shore

I'm the prince, put your crown on the ground (x7)
Oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh-oh-oh
Oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh
Sick

I'm the prince, put your crown on the ground (x7)
Oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh-oh-oh
Oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh, Oh-oh
Sick


I do not, I do not, I am just, I am just a rapper

Sick boy make moves like a chess piece
And that move real quick like Nestle
Let me make it clear for a second like Pepsi
I was never worried bout my wallet bein' empty
'Cause when it was empty, I was still happy
Walkin' with my Walkman, freestyle rappin'
High school bullies like what the fuck happened
Nigga off the hook like I fuckin' shot the captain

And this supposed to be relaxin', rappin' is my hobby
I did this in my bedroom where I separate my laundry
Watchin' old episodes of Shining Time Station
You are now listening to my mouth on vacation (ation)
Why you doing this, what's your motivation?
I am just a rapper, I don't need the paper
No Will Smith went off without a hitch man
C-H-I-L-D it's the ISH man
Do sixteen bars no wristband
I'll always be childish, call me Maggie Simpson
Run the track like my tongue's an Olympian
I've always been this good, you just weren't listening

I'mma try to make my street cred stack up
I mean I'm rapping over Grizzy Bear, what the fuck
Gather swagger up, before I take it all
You started rapping when you wasn't good at basketball
I started rapping 'cause I fucking need some Adderall
I can't do one thing, I'm just too good
I can't do one thing, I am Tiger Woods
I make you iPod hotter than a lighter would

Picture me in sixth grade, overweight, overbite
Got my fake Adidas on, whiting out the fourth stripe
Kid named Vincent got it out for me, I hate that guy
Frodo from Chicago, really small and shy
You better recognize, 'cause I'm no better now
'Cause I was always sick, my life's a hospital
And that's some funny shit, that turd is Apatow
That female dog is blind, well bitch look at me now!

I'm wearing tight jeans, and nobody's laughing
More pussy than recycled sanitary napkins
Bitch sitting shotgun in my Tracy Chapman
I did exactly what you niggas said would never happen.

I'm doing me so big I can hardly walk
These rappers need ER like they're Charlie Park
Stay hard like my suit made by Tony Stark
This kinda music make your balls drop, Dick Clark
Yes I'm grown and sexy, and I'm worth the wait
Girls act like I'm the only dude on earth to date
Put these words on your head and let them percolate
We need to separate church and state.

I used to have to pay for gas in my momma's Saturn
And now I'm paying for a mortgage as a working actor
If living my life is what you say you're chasing after
Nigga stop talking shit and just be a rapper (be a rapper).


(DC Pierson)
Whoa
What'd you get, amnesia?
I bet you wouldn't sleep on me if I was Lil' Weezy, huh?
Bet you wouldn't sleep on me if I was in a band or somethin'
And my bank balance were around a grand or somethin'
Ask you somethin':
Do you think I'm common like sense it?
That heaven didn't send this
Uniquely perfect dude so just discard me like a toy, then
But you know, I know, I'd make a damn good boyfriend

Oil can, oil can
You think I'm the tin man
You took my little heart and you kicked it like a tin can
Ain't you heard I got the kind of shine can make your skin tan?
In the mean time don't come crying for the thin man
In the mean time I'll be building my portfolio
All these other dudes eradicated like polio
With any luck you'll see me everywhere like Starbucks
I bet you wanna fuck me when it's time to star buck

(Childish Gambino)
I didn't have green like an Arizona front lawn
Now they try to touch my face like an iPhone
Now I'm all gassed up like Exon
Girls see the money like I fuckin' got checks on
I dunno even know if this girl really likes me
Pickin' up the check like I'm workin' at Nike
Talkin' to this girl and I'm thinkin' that she's into me
Then I find out she's tryin' to break in the industry
That's really lame
I still hit it
But I refuse to be home girl's meal ticket
I'm lookin' for a sick girl to be a part of me
Not a girl who will try to McCartney me

Yes, homie I'm a man of my word
Got this shit in the can like a toilet of turd
And, yes, these gold diggers tryin' to get at my sperm
Well, I'm not a 49ers fan, in case you haven't heard
I know my girl out there somewhere
And if you hear this, you should come here
Unless you don't give head like a weird beer
Elroy, Bam-B, yeah, I'm outta here


In the fourth grade I had a crush on Tia Smith
Sixth grade and this crush is turned to Beatrice
But they don't like me
Because I'm too nice
And I'm kinda fat
And not the dope type

But I grew out of that
And it's a miracle
Not every girl sees me as marrying material
It's a buyers market
I'm Alicia's target
And every other girl who wanna let me steam their carpet

I love these hipster girls
And they feel the same
Now they don't have to choose when someone asks them Drake or Wayne
And niggas waiting on me
We didn't have a voice
We used to have to act street but now you've got a choice

My momma's brownie mix
I keep the goodies moist
Of every girl I'm tappin
This wasn't supposed to happen
Hard to keep my thoughts straight
On every date
Especially when my penis talking
SWAT team, cover me
I'm going in.

I do not talk. I am just a rapper.

Yes, I got
I'm meeting other girls
But you don't wanna hear that
For fear that I fuck a lot.
And you don't wanna get attached 'cause you'll like me
I fucked a girl named Keira Knightly
Nah, I made it up
Cause it sounded dope
I don't give a fuck.

Ride me, Giddy up.

They can hear us in the hall, arsenio.
Naw girl I don't wanna shoot a video
I do it all day
Don't you watch me on the TV show?
I'm gonna get mines any means necessary
Got red bull pulsing through my pulmonary
Least I feel like it

Met her at a club
Now we're making out
And I ain't spend a dub
I'm gonna try to live it up like top floor
And my girls like get so I bought more

All girls 18 and over love this light speed Casanova
House pimped out will young sonoma
Sleep on me that is a coma

Yeah nigga, you see what I'm getting at
I'm getting at her
I'm hitting that
Her kitty cat purred
How weird is that?
I'm digging that

A nigga not
Trying to say I don't make mistakes
I'm trying to fix all the hearts I break
But every time that we talk in my apartment
We're gonna kiss a little
And then we start shit

You're heartless!
Don't call again!
Don't email!
We can't be friends!
I swear that this is the end!
Then I call her next week
And we do it again.

My girls, my girls, my girls. my girls.
My girls, my girls, my girls, my girls.

I don't mean to seem like I care about material things, like a social status.
I just want four walls and adobe slabs for my girls.
Ow!


Sick. Uh.

Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.

I do not talk.

I do not talk. I am just a rapper.

Childish Gambino, hot as a flaming cheeto
I'm tighter than baby speedos
I'm shifting another kilo
And that's because my shits dope
Walking past the red rope
The bouncer is my kin folk
So I don't need credentials

Sick boy is my clique
I got that shit inside a headlock
Love to make that bam bam
We were born to make the bed rock

I am so hip hop
More so than you guys
I am legend
You guys are true lies

Tipsy like some jenga
Shout out to my topangas
Them fifty fit girls stay wrapped around my finga
Nerdy girls from every where
They scope me out like there he is
My whole crew's sick
I'm hanging out with jerry's kids

Hold up mother fucker
It's gambini on the microphone
Screaming like your father when he comes home and the light are on
Girls addicted to my dick
My wallet is there methadone
Brain dead niggas love beef
They are vegetables

I am on that fly shit
Fuck that, I'm orbiting
My face is everywhere
Fuck that, I'm norbiting

I can feel your heat, momma
I can hear your feet, momma

...Give you the sunrise
I wanna give you the sunrise
I wanna give you the sunrise
I wanna give you the sunrise


You don't know what's in store
But you know what you're here for
Close your eyes, lay yourself beside me
Hold tight for this ride
We don't need no protection
Come alone, we don't need attention

Open your hand, take a glass
Don't be scared, I'm right here
Even though, you don't roll
Trust me girl, you wanna be high for this

Take it off, you want it off
'Cause I know what you're feeling
It's okay, girl, I feel it too
Let it be, baby breathe
I swear I'm right here
We'll be good, I promise, we'll be so good

Open your hand, take a glass
Don't be scared, I'm right here
Even though, you don't roll
Trust me girl, you wanna be high for this

You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this

You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this


Aaliyah:
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer

The Weeknd:
I just want to take you there
He don't got to go nowhere
Does he touch you here like this?
Let me take the friction from your lips

And I'mma love you girl, the way you need
Ain't no one gon' stop us, ain't no one gon'stop us
And I'mma give you girl, what you feel
I'm the drug in your veins, just fight through the pain

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need

I got everything you want from me
I do everything he does times three
And he don't gotta know
I got you on the floor, doing things you never thought you'd do
Baby leave them high heel shoes
'Cause I'm loving the way you looking down at me, I'm looking up at you
And I don't give a damn shorty watch me knock your boots off

And I'mma love you girl, the way you need
Ain't no one gon' stop us, ain't no one gon'stop us
And I'mma give you girl, what you feel
I'm the drug in your veins, just fight through the pain

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need


Been on another level
Since you came
No more pain
You look into my eyes
You can't recognize my face
You're in my world now
You can stay
You can stay
But you belong to me
You belong to me

If it hurts to breathe
Open the window
Oh, your mind wants to leave
But you can't go

Siouxsie Sioux and the Weeknd:
This is a happy house (A happy house)
We're happy here (We're happy here)
In a happy house
Oh this is fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun)
Fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun to me)
Fun, fun, fun, fun

The Weeknd:
Music got you lost
Nights ends so much quicker than the days did
Same clothes, you ain't ready for your day shift
This place will burn you up
But baby it's okay, they my niggas next door
They be working in the trap, so get louder if you want
Just don't blame it on me girl
That you didn't call your home
Just don't blame it on me girl
'Cause you wanted to have fun

If it hurts to breathe
Open the window
Oh, your mind wants to leave
But you can't go

Siouxsie Sioux and the Weeknd:
This is a happy house (A happy house)
We're happy here (We're happy here)
In a happy house
Oh this is fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun)
Fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun to me)
Fun, fun, fun, fun

The Weeknd:
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the seven

Two puffs for the lady who be down for that
Whatever, together
Bring your own stash of the greatest, trade it
Roll a dub, burn a dub, cough a dub, taste it
Then, watch us chase it
With a handful of pills, no chasers
Jaw clenching on some super-sized papers
And she bad in a head band
Escaping, her van is a Wonderland
And it's half-past six
Weed's nice 'cause time don't exist
And when the stars shine back to the crib
Superstar lines back at the crib
And we can test out the tables
We got some brand new tables
All glass and it's four feet wide
But it's a must to get us ten feet high
She give me sex in a handbag
I got her wetter than a wet nap
And no closed doors
So I listen to her moans echo
"I heard he do drugs now"
You heard wrong I been on them for a minute, we just never act a fool
That's just how we fuckin' livin'
And when we act a fool, it's probably 'cause we mixed it
Yeah I'm always on that okey dokey
Them white boys know the deal, ain't no fuckin' phony
Big O know the deal, he the one who showed me
Watch me ride this fucking beat like he fuckin' told me
"Is that your girl, what's her fucking story?"
"She kinda bad but she ride it like a fucking pony"
I cut down on her man, be her fuckin' story
Yeah I'm talking 'bout you man, get to know me
Ain't no offense though, I promise you
If you a real man, dude, you gon' decide the truth
But I'm a nice dude with some nice dreams
And we could turn this to a nightmare, Elm Street

La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone, so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone, so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out

Whip the 707 out
Whip the 707 out


I left my girl back home
I don't love her no more
And she'll never fucking know that
These fucking eyes that I'm staring at

Let me see that ass
Look at all this cash
And I emptied out my cards to her
Now I'm fucking leaning on that

Bring your love baby I could bring my shame
Bring the drugs baby I could bring my pain
I got my heart right here
I got my scars right here

Bring the cups baby I could bring the drank
Bring your body baby I could bring you fame
And that's my motherfucking words too
Just let me motherfucking love you

Listen ma I'll give you all I got
Get me off on this
I need confidence in myself
Listen ma I'll give you all of me
Give me all of it
I need all of it to myself

So tell me you love me
Only for tonight
Only for one night
Even though you don't love me

Just tell me you love me
I'll give you what I need
I'll give you all of me
Even though you don't love me

Let me see you dance
I love to watch you dance
Take you down another level
And get you dancing with the devil

Take a shot of this
But I'm warning you
I'm on that shit that you can't smell baby
So put down your perfume

Bring your love baby I could bring my shame
Bring the drugs baby I could bring my pain
I got my heart right here
I got my scars right here

Bring the cups baby I could bring the drank
Bring your body baby I could bring you fame
And that's my motherfucking word too
So let me motherfucking love you

Listen ma I'll give you all I got
Get me off on this
I need confidence in myself
Listen ma I'll give you all of me
Give me all of it
I need all of it to myself

So tell me you love me
Only for tonight
Only for one night
Even though you don't love me

Just tell me you love me
I'll give you what I need
I'll give you all of me
Even though you don't love me


I understand your body wants it
I know your thoughts
Oh you 'bout it, 'bout it
You're a big girl and it's your world
And I'ma let you do it how you wanna
Girl alright baby, right baby
I know you know I know you wanna... with it
Don't be shy pretty, I'll supply pretty
I got you girl, oh I got it girl

With your Louis V bag
Tatts on your arms
High-heel shoes make you six feet tall
Everybody wants you, you can have them all
But I got what you need
Girl I got your bag, I got it all
Hold your drink baby don't you fall
Be there in a minute baby just one call
You don't gotta ask me

You always come to the party
To pluck the feathers off all the birds
You always come to the party
On your knees
I will not beg you please

Girl, pick up them shoes
I'll race your ass up on them stairs
Just grab a room I swear no one will interfere
Girl bring your friends if you want, we can share
Or we could keep it simple, baby
We can just ride baby, ride baby
I know you know I know you wanna... with it
Don't be shy baby, I'll supply baby
I got you girl, oh I got it girl

With your Louis V bag
Tatts on your arms
High-heel shoes make you six feet tall
Everybody wants you, you can have them all
But I got what you need
Girl I got your bag, I got it all
Hold your drink baby don't you fall
Be there in a minute baby just one call
You don't gotta ask me

You always come to the party
To pluck the feathers of all the birds
You always come to the party
On your knees
I will not beg you please
I will not...

Ride with it, ride with it
I know, you know, I know you wanna line with it
Don't be shy pretty, I'll supply pretty
I got you girl, oh I got it girl

Won't you lie with it, lie with it
I know you know I know you wanna...
I got you girl, oh I got you girl

Oh I got it girl, oh I got it girl
I think I'm fucking gone
Rolling on this floor
Messing up your carpet
I'll get on it after four
My sessions are the strong on your floor
Shouldn't have fucking rolled
But I fucking rolled
Feeling like a million bucks before
I walk through the store
When I walk through your door
Can't believe I made it but I made it that's for sure
For sure, loving I need more, I need yours
She ain't looking for that unconditional
What the fuck these bitches on
They want what I'm sittin' on
They don't want my love
They just want my potential
Fuck it though, sippin' on this
Baby livin' off bliss got me drowning in your love
Got me drowning in the mist
Gimme my attention or I'll start drowning from my wrist

Baby if you knew the feeling I would give to you
Oh you
You, oh you
'Cause I got it girl, oh I got it girl
With me, with me
Oh you, oh you
Oh you, oh you
Oh I got it girl, oh I got it girl
With me, with me

I got a brand new girl call it Rudolph
She'll probably OD before I show her to mama
All these girls tryna tell me she got no love
And all these girls never ever got her blow job
Ringtone on silent
And if she stops then I might get violent
No calls worth stopping
So mama please stop calling
We could play all night
It just takes one night
To let me fucking prove this feeling I'ma give to you
Oh you, you
Oh you, Oh I got it girl, oh I got it girl
With me, with me
Oh you, oh you
Oh you, oh you
Oh I got it girl, oh I got it girl
With me, with me

Oh I got it girl


I got somethin' to tell you
But don't know how I'ma say it
I guess that I can only say one thing:
Girl, I been bad again
Girl, I been bad again

'Cause with this money comes problems
And with these problems come solutions
And I use 'em but I'm fading
I forget
I forget what you mean to me
Hope you know what you mean to me

Pick
Up
Your phone
The party's finished and I want you to know
I'm
All alone
I'm feeling everything before I got up
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
(x2)

Poppin' again
I tried to quit again
I'm always tight wit' somethin' I begin
That's why my niggas got me to the end
So play what I take, I take what I spend baby
I ain't lyin' to nobody but me
And you
And me
But you especially

Pick
Up
Your phone
The party's finished and I want you to know
I'm
All alone
I'm feeling everything before I got up
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
(x2)

Pick up your phone
I'm all alone
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
I always want you when I'm coming down
(x2)


Oh, oh
Oh, oh

They say my brain meltin', and the only thing I'll tell 'em
Is I'm livin' for the present and the future don't exist
So baby take your clothes off, a chance like this
You may never get to show off, show off
Show off what you talking about
Unless you like to tease, baby
When in reality you don't know how to please, baby
Blue-ball queen, take your fucking seat, baby
Ride it out, now I know you wanna scream, baby
Better than your next man
And if he swingin' I get dumber than the next man
'Cause I don't play
Unless it's keys then I play all day (all day)
You like them keys? We gon' play all day (all day)
Wet dream fry your brain all day (all day)
I think you lost your morals, girl (What?)
But it's okay 'cause you don't need 'em where we're going
In that two-floor loft in the middle of the city
After rolling through the city with me
I promise you gon' see
That I'm only fucking twenty, girl
Amnesia, put your mind in a dream world
What you doing in the bathroom?
I hear noises in the bathroom
Baby, it's okay
We can do it in the living room
Twisting turns in 'em, the only girls that we fuck with
Seem to have twenty different pills in 'em
They tell us that they love us
Even though they want a next man
And the next man's bitch want the third man
Eddie Murphy shit, yeah we trade places
Rehearse lines to them and then we fuck faces
Yeah we know just how to get a buzz
Mix it with the hash, come fuck with us
I'm raw, motherfucker, I'm raw
My love so lost in my niggas, man
These bitches can't touch what we got if they wanted
I'll plug any nigga that'll step, man, I got 'em, yeah I got 'em
Till the ending of our credits, life's such a movie
Filmed independent, us against the city
Please don't get offended when we don't answer your calls
And if you got a problem, come and find us, we can talk about it
What's good, young ho? You about it?
Got a loft right now, you're inside it
You excited?

What you thinkin' about?
What you thinkin' about?
Yeah
Oh, what you thinkin' about?
Oh, what you thinkin' about?
What you thinkin' about?
What you thinkin' about?
What you thinkin'?
I been thinkin' about?
Hoo hoo

I know everything
I know everything
I know it all
I know it all oh oh

Hoo
Hoo oh
Oh oh
Ooh


I know what you did
I know
So I'mma let you taste her
I ain't washing my sins
I ain't washing my sins

Now we're lying about the nights
Hiding it all behind the smiles
Take a look at what you did
You probably thought that you'd break my heart
You probably thought that you'd make me cry
But baby it's okay
I swear it's okay

'Cause I know everything
I know everything
I know everything
I know everything

Now these tongues don't twist like they did before
It's hard to keep me up
And you are dry
But baby it don't hurt
Oh, like you thought it would
The more of you the merrier

Now we're lying about the nights
Hiding it all behind the smiles
Take a look at what you did
You probably thought that you'd break my heart
You probably thought that you'd make me cry
But baby it's okay
It's okay

I know everything, yeah
I know everything
I know everything
I know everything


It seems like pain and regret are your best friends
Cause everything you do leads to them
You think I could be your best friend
Baby I could fuck you right

Baby you could have it all
Baby you could have it all
Baby you can have the cars
The clothes, the dreams, the sex, the house
Baby you could be a star

Baby all these things are your best friends
And nothings ever ever your fault
Nothings your fault baby, no
Baby you don't need your best friends
'Cause I got everything you want

Baby you could have it all
Baby you could have it all
Baby you can have the cars
The clothes, the dreams, the sex, the house
Baby you could be a star

[If, all I could say is if
Promise me you won't regret me when you're touching on my skin
Let the wrong path come to me
One day I'm hoping that you, will remember me
When you fuck them you'll see my face
My body is yours
Give them any other day but Thursday
You belong to me
Every Thursday
I wait for you
I'll be beautiful for you
Every Thursday
I exist
Only on Thursday]

Not on Monday, Tuesday, wendesday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday
But on Thursday...
Not on Monday, Tuesday, wendesday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday
But on Thursday...


Welcome to the other side
You're lost
Baby step outside your mind
You've been really good
You've been really good
You've been thinking bout being bad ever since I put you on
She got money to blow
Just look at that nose

Prescription ain't an issue
You can mix it with the uh
And if you wanna do it, baby
I'm right here with you
I'm on cloud 9
Baby you're behind
You can follow me

You can follow me if you want
Go downtown with the drugs in your body
Take that step you're the life of the party
Know that step you're the life of the party

I got 2 little ladies
I got 1 little room
There's a room full of niggas
Baby what you wanna do?
The way you move got me feeling so uh
I been thinking about it baby
I been thinking about it lately

I'm so far gone and you are too
Show me how you go downtown
With the drugs in your body
Take that step, you're the life of the party
Know that step, you're the life of the party

I love how you touch
How you feel
How you breath
Baby how you do it so good

How you twist with your hips got the room so slow baby
Girl please don't go
You're gonna please my boys
You been thinking about it baby

Yeah you're a star
Oh you love?
Girl you love my time
Girl, there's 1 2 3
Go downtown with the drugs in your body
Take that step you're the life of the party
Know that step you're the life of the party


I love her, today
'Cause it's Wednesday, I won't be late
I don't need to know if you're feeling when I'm free

Not on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday
Sunday but on Thursday... Thursday
Not on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday
Sunday but on Thursday, make sure you are thirsty
Oh on Thursday, baby get ready oh on Thursday
Woaahoooh hold it oh on Thursday, just wait on Thursday, baby only Thursday

Can I try? Can I try?
I've been here for too long
Baby don't cry
Why are you calling again?
But It's not Thursday, baby why you calling?

Not on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday
Sunday but on Thursday... Thursday
Not on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday
Sunday but on Thursday, make sure you are thirsty
Oh on Thursday, baby get ready oh on Thursday
Woaahoooh hold it oh on Thursday, just wait on Thursday, baby only Thursday

Thursday, Thursday, Thursday, Thursday


Why you rushing me baby?
It's only us
I don't want to die tonight baby
So lemme sip this slow
I'll give you what you called for
Just let me get in my zone
I'll be making love to her through you
So let me keep my eyes closed
And I won't see a damn thing
I can't feel a damn thing
But if I touch you right
I won't see a damn thing
I can't feel a damn thing
But I'mma touch you right

I'mma touch you right (let me sip this slow)
I'mma touch you right (let me get inside my zone)
I'mma touch you right (just let me)

And I'mma lean, till I fall, ooh yeah
And I don't give a damn
I felt the ground before

I left it all behind, baby
I didn't need no one
But I'm in here tonight baby
I've been alone for too long
Oh, oh yeah

So, I won't say a damn thing
I can't feel a damn thing
But I'ma touch you right

I can't see a damn thing
I can't feel a damn thing

But I'ma touch you right

I'ma touch you right, ooh yeah (let me sip this slow)
I'ma touch you right (let me get inside my zone)
I'ma touch you right (just let me)

(Drake)
Whoa, all these broken hearts on that pole
Man if pole dancing's an art you know how many fuckin' artists I know
Got some new bills in the mail, got some big favours I owe
Got some good things ahead of me when these bad bitches let go
Well girl let's... go, walk your broken heart through that door
Sit yo sexy ass on that couch
Wipe that lipstick off of your mouth
I take it slow
She in love with my crew
She said make enough so I can try some
I thought taking drugs just ain't you, be you
Yeah girl, just be you
And I do this shit for my hometown, it been going down, it ain't new
That's that north north, that up top
That OVO and that XO
Your girlfriend at our next show
But it's all good, don't stress though
First night fuck, never really planned it
Take a deep breath, no one need to panic
Lips so French, ass so Spanish
You don't really like attention, I don't know if she gon' manage out here
But she got me all up in my zone
Said she like the view I got in this place, shit I did all of that on my own
Aw yeah


Hope you see
It won't mean a thing to me
I've been doing this too long
Baby girl, I've felt it all
So watch out
If you try to play your luck
Ain't nobody gonna care enough
To catch you fall

So don't you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Nobody needs to fall in love
I swear I'm just a bird
Girl, I'm just another bird
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Like Me

You tried
You tried to warn me
But baby, I'm warning you
Girl, I'll show you
This is no game
You'll be falling to the point of no return
No return

So don't you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Nobody needs to fall in love
I swear I'm just a bird
Girl, I'm just another bird
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Like Me

I know you're rolling hard with it, don't lie
I know it's got a hold of you
I know you're rolling with it
Baby don't you lie, baby

I know you're rolling hard with it, don't lie
I know it's got a hold of you
I know you're rolling with it
Baby don't you lie, baby

So don't you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Like me
'Cause girl I'm just a bird
Girl, I'm just another bird
Don't make me make you fall in love with a nigga like me
Like me


With a nigga like me...

She said please, mercy me, mercy me
Let me fall outta love, before you fuck her, before you fuck her
She thanked me, she gave me all her pills
Now my back hurts, she lost control

Now she begging, she on the floor, she on the floor
Baby got her pleading, she on the floor, she on the floor
She said, it won't be long before she falls out of love
Won't be long before she falls out of love

Just a bird, tried to kiss you
But you never let me miss you 
But you never let me miss you 
I thought I told you
I'm not him
I'm not him
What you did, nobody forced your hand
And don't you fall for a nigga like me, I beg, I beg

Now you're pleading, she on the floor, she on the floor
Now you're pleading, she on the floor, she on the floor
She said "it won't be long" before she falls out of love
It won't be long, before she falls out of love

If she only knew
Trust me girl


I got you
I got a hold of you
Said you want to see
How we roll
Well take a seat (take a seat)
And we'll just
Drink it, drop it, drink it, spill it
Baby, touch your body, body
You gotta, taste it, feel it, rub it on me baby
Don't you worry, you gotta keep up
'Cause I been gone, I been gone, I been gone, I been gone

Girl
Why don't you fuck what you heard, baby
'Cause I been gone
You can see for yourself, lady
Girl, I lit you something
Something something, for you
You would love to pass around
Yeah, yeah, yeah yeah yeah yeah

Oh well just- Drink it, drop it, drink it, spill it
Baby, touch your body, body
Gotta taste it, feel it, rub it on me baby
Don't you worry, don't you worry, you gotta keep up
'Cause I been gone
I've been gone, I've been gone, I've been gone
I've been gone, I've been gone
I've been gone, I've been gone, I've been gone

I hope I make it home
You'll be thinking of it
I got the whole city on my side, tonight, tonight
Watch us rock it out
Watch us leave it girl
After the show is done
You can take take me to yours

But my lungs so bloody
I love the way you taste
Drink it till I'm horny baby
Fuck me while I'm faded
Feel that through my pennant
Babygirl I gotcha
I'm only 21 so I do it when I wanna
Gone from the codeine, 'methazine, weed
Got me feelin' kinda weak
And it's kinda hard to breathe
But you're turning 23, so I'll fuck you if you need
In your birthday suit
I'mma give you what you fiend

But I ain't taking off my black boots
I'm fallin'
'Cause I'm numb from the neck down
I'm sorry
You won't know that I can't feel it
I get with the fuckin' loose girls
By the way I fuckin' did it
And you won't ever fuckin' know
'Cause I won't ever fuckin' show it
Except when I be wheezy from that other cup of potion

Dirty spiked toastin
Fast life fuck slow
Low life for life
Let the mix flow
Let the night flow
I'm so gone
Let these meds flow
I'm so gone
Let these meds flow
I'm so gone
I'm so gone
Whoa, whoa, oh
Said I'm gone gone gone
Whoa oh

I'm so gone
Gone


Now your thinkin' 'bout it
Girl you're thinkin' 'bout it
What we got here
How we fuckin' got here
They recognize
They just recognize
I'm in a life without a home so this recognition's not enough
I don't care about nobody else
'Cause I've been on these streets way too long
Baby I've been on this too long

It's getting faded too long
Got me on this rolling stone
So I take another hit
Kill another seroton'
With a hand full of beans
And a chest full of weed
Got me singing 'bout a bitch
While I'm blowing out my steam
Yeah I know I got my issues
Why you think I fuckin' flow?
And I'ma keep on smoking till I can't hit another note
Ooh, but until then

I got you
Baby I got you
Until you're used to my face
And my mystery fades
I got you
So baby love me
Before they all love me
Until you won't love me
Because they all left me
I'll be different
I think I'll be different
I hope I'm not different
And I hope you'll still listen
But until then
Baby I got you
I got you
Girl I still got you
I got you


I'm paying for all my father's sins
So I will thank him for you
I'mma thank him for you
My serotonin's got a while to go
Girl, it's gone cause of you
It's been gone cause of you

They say, they want heaven
They say, they want God
I say, I got heaven
Well I say, I am God

I never prayed a moment in my life
Girl I'm rewarded with you
I've been rewarded with you
So baby let me kiss your inner thigh
Let me kiss it for you
I can kiss it for you

They say, they want heaven
They say, they want God
I say, I have heaven
I say, I am God


Oh no
Oh no, oh no

You'll never make me stay so take your head off of me
I know your every move so won't you please let me be?
I've been here times before but I was too blind to see
That you seduce every man, this time you won't seduce me

She's saying, "That's okay, hey baby do what you please
I have the stuff the you want, I am the thing that you need"
She looked me deep in the eyes, she's touchin' me so to start
She says there's no turnin' back, she trapped me in her heart

Dirty Diana, no
Dirty Diana, no
Dirty Diana, no
Dirty Diana
Let me be, ooh

She likes the boys in the band, she knows when they come to town
Every musician's fan after the curtains comes down
She waits at backstage doors for those who have prestige
Who promise fortune and fame, a life that's so carefree
She's saying, "That's okay, hey baby, do what you want
I'll be your night lovin' thing, I'll be the freak you can taunt
And I don't care what you say, I want to go too far
I'll be your everything if you make me a star"

Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana, no
Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana

Dirty Diana, ooh
Dirty Diana, no
Dirty Diana, nah
Dirty Diana
Let me be, ooh

She said, "I have to go home 'cause I'm real tired you see
But I hate sleepin' alone why don't you come with me?"
I said, "My baby's at home, she's probably worried tonight"
I didn't call on the phone to say that I'm alright

Diana walked up to me, she said, "I'm all yours tonight"
At that I ran to the phone, sayin', "Baby I'm alright"
I said, "Unlock the door because I forgot the key"
She said, "He's not coming back because he's sleeping with me"

Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana, oh

Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana, oh
Dirty Diana
Let me be, ooh

Oh no
Oh no
Oh no
Oh no


I'll let you show me his moves
Let you do what he taught you
Let you reminisce how you used, to do
Girl I'm open to anything that would get you into that zone
And understand that we're all alone
So you can slowly take off your clothes
Baby girl you know what's in store
Baby I will stay up all night
I've been goin' hard since last night
And I'ma go harder tonight
Wish you could see you through my eyes
Ooh I'm tellin' you this ain't the same
And I know he's still in your brain
I'm 'bout to burn that shit into flames
Once I'm in you
Baby

Forget what you know
Make yourself at home
Cause baby when I'm finished with ya you won't wanna go
Outside

And I'ma work you like a pro, baby
And, you gon' take it like one
Yeah you gon' take it like one
And I'ma give it like you asked for it
Why, 'cause you been talkin' 'bout it
I know you been talkin' 'bout it
Ooh baby when I'm done with you
You ain't sayin' nothin'
Yeah you ain't sayin' nothin'
Ooh baby when I'm done with you
You ain't sayin' nothin'
Yeah you ain't sayin' nothin'
You gon' make me show off
All the pain that you feel you can tell that we ain't makin' no love
But I'll pretend
Oh girl, I'll pretend
If you pretend then girl I'll pretend
Let's make it seem like we're all we need in the end

Forget what you know
Make yourself at home
Cause baby when I'm finished with ya you won't wanna go
Outside


Shots of the Henny, bottles of Patron
Blunts to your face, you don't wanna sing no more
Lost your C notes, cabbed all day
Took the bus back home, evictions on your door
Blame it on the weed, blame it on the booze
Blame it on the night life, light's passin' you, yeah
Just don't blame it on me, that you wanna come and party
With a nigga like me, 'cause I get it, you're built like a Goddess
And it seems like you been stressin' 'specially when your nose red
From that K, special Diet Coke, you need more bread
Now you got no rent, you blow that money, money
You try to window shop, you blow another hundred
She's fuckin' goons in the day, hipster nights downtown
And your daddy don't know you're out

If they don't let you in, you know where to find me
'Cause if you wanna go again, you can always call me
'Cause all we ever do is love
Open up ya' mind, you can find the love
Girl you ain't alone, we all been alone
Baby just be honest

XO, oh, don't you forget
XO, don't you worry 'bout a thing
XO, we'll be everything you need, just believe
XO, yeah, XO, whoa

I love it when your eyes are red
Ah yeah, are you on my cloud yet?
'Cause I got a brand new cam, can we video feed, can we POV?
Oh why, I wanna catch you at your best
When your hair's a mess, you look so depressed
And you're filled with regret and you feel like you gotta go home
'Cause these nights pass so much quicker then the days did
Same clothes, you ain't ready for your day shift
But you up you need money for your face lift
Lust over love is your mindset
Waken up with most of your side wet
Another room, you hear your mom cryin'
'Cause she found your bag stuffed in the laundry
And the Bacardi from the last party

If they won't let you in, you know where to find me, oh
And if you wanna go again, you can always call me
'Cause all we ever do is love
Open up ya' mind you can find the love
Girl you ain't alone, we all been alone
Baby just be honest

XO, oh, don't you forget
XO, don't you worry 'bout a thing
XO, we'll be everything you need, just believe
XO, yeah, XO, whoa

I need, I need something from you
Oh, there's so much love to pass around
There's too much love
Girl, the night's almost done
And who you came with is already gone
You said you want me
But I remember who you are
Girl, it wasn't long ago
Didn't think I'd go this far

I got a test for you
You said you want my heart
Well, baby you can have it all
There's just something that I need from you is to meet my boys
I got a lot of boys
And we can make you right
And if you get too high
Baby, come over here and ride it out, oh, oh, ooh yeah
Ride it out, oh, oh, whoa yeah
Ride it out
Ride it out, ooh
Just ride it


Oh yeah
Got you drinking out them white cups, sodas, all this shit sounds foreign to you, thick smoke, choking
Baby get familiar with the order
Just crack it, then pour it, then sip slow, then tip low, my eyes red but my brim low, that XO, she climbing
Straight to the top, forget why she there in the first place
No more crying, heart rate's low, put that rum down you don't wanna die tonight
I promise, when you're finished we'll head to where I'm living
The party won't finish it's a fucking celebration (oh yeah)

For my niggas out tonight, and they high off Shakespeare lines
There's enough to pass around, you don't gotta wait in line
And the clocks don't work you don't gotta check the time
And the blinds don't work you don't gotta check the sky
We been going all night, till light

I got a test for you
You say you want my heart
Well baby you can have it all
There's just something I need from you
Is to meet my boys

You've been going hard baby, now you rolling with some big boys baby
Got a lot you wanna show off baby, close that door before you take your fucking clothes off baby
Don't mind, all my writings on the wall
I thought I passed my peak, and I'll experience some fall
And all I wanna do is leave 'cause I've been zoning for a week
And I ain't left this little room, trying to concentrate to breathe
Cause this piff so potent, killing serotonin
In that two floor loft in the middle we be choking
On that all black voodoo, got me gum chewing
Call one of your best friends
Baby if you mixing up
Cup of that XO, baby I been leaning
Back from the come down, girl I been fiending
For another round, don't you blame it on me
When you're grinding up them teeth and it's fucking hard to sleep

I got a test for you
You say you want my heart
Well baby you can have it all
There's just something I need from you
Is to meet my boys
I got a lot of boys
And we can make you right
And if you get too high
Baby come over here and ride it out, ride it out

Work that back till I tire out
Roll that weed, blow the fire out
Taste that lean when you kiss my mouth
Get so wet when I eat you out
Girlfriend screaming that I'm creeping out
If they're not down, better keep 'em out
Ex-man hollering, keep him out
Hard to let go, I could teach you how
Take a puff of this motherfucking weed for now
Take a shot of this cognac, ease you out
Just one night, trying to fucking leave you out
Baby, baby

I got a test for you
You say you want my heart
Well baby you can have it all
There's just something I need from you
Is to meet my boys
I got a lot of boys
And we can make you right
And if you get too high
Baby come over here and ride it out, ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah
Baby come over here and ride it out, ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah

That north north, that up top, that OVO and that XO, [x8]


Where were you when I needed you, eight months ago
All your girlfriends talkin' 'bout me, now you ringin' up my phone
Bet you miss me now baby, I bet you'd kiss me now baby
Especially since you know that this ain't nothin' and I only just begun

You never thought that I would ever go this far
You said potential could never last this long
Well baby I've been alone for almost all my life
What makes you think that you can ever do me right

You're the same old song
You're the same old song
You're the same old song
You're the same old song
The same old song

And now I'm poppin' yeah
Ain't nobody showed me how
I made it big poppin' yeah
Tell me how you like me now
I swear I loved you girl
And you probably went and fucked the world
Well you can take another shot every time you hear me playin' in the club

You never thought that I would ever go this far
(Never thought I'd go this far I made it)
You said potential could never last this long
(You never thought it could last so long)
Well baby I've been alone for almost all my life
(I been alone for most of my life)
What makes you think that you can ever do me right

You're the same old song
You're the same old song
You're the same old song
You're the same old song
The same old song


You can pick my voice to dance to
You say my money no good in here
Even though I didn't ask you
And it's the most you've worked
Even though I probably don't deserve this girl
But you been dreaming for this moment so you have to
Baby, it's OK
I got show money baby
I wanna show you how I blow money baby
I wanna show you how I throw money baby
I'm a kid, so it's hard for me to hold money, baby
'Cause I'm a star, don't get it twisted
Got some choppers on the car
What kind of caps I got the finest of them all
Somebody pop 'em before we pop 'em all, before we pop 'em all

Saying this ain't nothing, but it's all I need
And the peak ain't reached but the peek is all I feel
And it feels so good
It feels so good [x3]
I ain't scared of the fall [x4]
I felt the ground before [x4]
'Cause I ain't scared of the fall

Mama I understand why you're mad
And it hurts to accept what I am
And how I live
And what I do
But I've been good since Thursday
Yes I've been good since Thursday

So you can watch my love vanish
Where it goin', no telling
But to make room, I'll vanish
Call a friend for my friend
And her friend's name's Lexis
I let my niggas test it
I'm always worth a cent
Best believe I'm already spent
My blunt full of BC
My cup full of Texas
Flowing on that OVO jet, yeah I said it
I was born to be reckless
Was forced to make records
So you ain't gotta ask "who's next?"

Saying this ain't nothing, but it's all I need
And the peak ain't reached but the peek is all I feel
And it feels so good
It feels so good [x3]
I ain't scared of the fall [x4]
I felt the ground before [x4]
'Cause I ain't scared of the fall


She pop that pussy on a Monday, she never falls in love
But she heard me in the club, she put in work
She wanna give me all her money, she used to spend it all alone
'Cause her man went and did her wrong, so she
But baby I'm not trying to be the one
I got my baby waiting home, she been too good to let that go
And I ain't tryna win your heart and you can't pay to win my love
So keep dancin', baby, keep dancin', dancin'
Keep dancin', dancin', keep dancin'

(I want you) I know, yes I know, yes I know, yes I know, yes I know
(Baby I want you) I'm too far in this game, so let go, so let go, so let go
(Baby I want you) Baby, who you tryna fool?
Girl, I might be twenty-one but I got memories to prove
That I've seen your kind before and I know exactly what you want

You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next, baby
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next, baby
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next, oh yeah
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next

Baby, who you callin' soft? Don't make me smoke up all your kush
Don't make me pop your cheap-ass pills, I used to do this for the thrill, ooh yeah
I know you got a lot to lose but ain't nobody here but me
So baby what you got to prove? Ooh yeah
I see the way your body moves on the pole, on the floor, you're alone
But there ain't nothing I can do so keep dancin' baby, keep dancin', dancin'
Keep dancin', dancin', keep dancin'

(I want you) I know, yes I know, yes I know, yes I know, yes I know
(Baby I want you) I'm too far in this game, so let go, so let go, so let go
(Baby I want you) Baby, who you tryna fool?
Girl, I might be twenty-one but I got memories to prove
That I've seen your kind before and I know exactly what you want

You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next, you just want me 'cause I'm next
You just want me 'cause I'm next

Ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah
Ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah, ooh yeah


Talk to me baby, tell me what you're feeling
You say you don't need to go, don't you pretend you didn't know
How all of this would end up, girl, I saw it in your eyes
And baby I can read your mind and expectations were not in sight

You knew that talking dirty to me on the phone would get me here
'Cause we both wanted to do this but I could tell that you were scared
'Cause you thought there was more to us but you knew how this would end
It's gonna end how you expected, girl you're such a masochist and I ask, "Why?"
And you reply

"I like the thrill
Nothing's gonna make me feel this real
So baby don't go home
I don't wanna spend tonight alone

Baby please
Would you end your night with me?
Don't you leave me all behind
Don't you leave my little life
Don't you leave my little lie"

No, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no, no

No, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no, no
No, no, no, no, no


You don't know what's in store
But you know what you're here for
Close your eyes, lay yourself beside me
Hold tight for this ride
We don't need no protection
Come alone, we don't need attention

Open your hand, take a glass
Don't be scared, I'm right here
Even though, you don't roll
Trust me girl, you wanna be high for this

Take it off, you want it off
'Cause I know what you're feeling
It's okay, girl, I feel it too
Let it be, baby breathe
I swear I'm right here
We'll be good, I promise, we'll be so good

Open your hand, take a glass
Don't be scared, I'm right here
Even though, you don't roll
Trust me girl, you wanna be high for this

You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this

You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this
You wanna be high for this


Aaliyah:
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer
There now hold me close
There now hold me closer

The Weeknd:
I just want to take you there
He don't got to go nowhere
Does he touch you here like this?
Let me take the friction from your lips

And I'mma love you girl, the way you need
Ain't no one gon' stop us, ain't no one gon'stop us
And I'mma give you girl, what you feel
I'm the drug in your veins, just fight through the pain

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need

I got everything you want from me
I do everything he does times three
And he don't gotta know
I got you on the floor, doing things you never thought you'd do
Baby leave them high heel shoes
'Cause I'm loving the way you looking down at me, I'm looking up at you
And I don't give a damn shorty watch me knock your boots off

And I'mma love you girl, the way you need
Ain't no one gon' stop us, ain't no one gon'stop us
And I'mma give you girl, what you feel
I'm the drug in your veins, just fight through the pain

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need

He's what you want, he's what you want
He's what you want, he's what you want
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need
I'm what you need, what you need, what you need, what you need


Been on another level
Since you came
No more pain
You look into my eyes
You can't recognize my face
You're in my world now
You can stay
You can stay
But you belong to me
You belong to me

If it hurts to breathe
Open the window
Oh, your mind wants to leave
But you can't go

Siouxsie Sioux and the Weeknd:
This is a happy house (A happy house)
We're happy here (We're happy here)
In a happy house
Oh this is fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun)
Fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun to me)
Fun, fun, fun, fun

The Weeknd:
Music got you lost
Nights ends so much quicker than the days did
Same clothes, you ain't ready for your day shift
This place will burn you up
But baby it's okay, they my niggas next door
They be working in the trap, so get louder if you want
Just don't blame it on me girl
That you didn't call your home
Just don't blame it on me girl
'Cause you wanted to have fun

If it hurts to breathe
Open the window
Oh, your mind wants to leave
But you can't go

Siouxsie Sioux and the Weeknd:
This is a happy house (A happy house)
We're happy here (We're happy here)
In a happy house
Oh this is fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun)
Fun, fun, fun, fun (This is fun to me)
Fun, fun, fun, fun

The Weeknd:
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the 707 out
Bring the seven

Two puffs for the lady who be down for that
Whatever, together
Bring your own stash of the greatest, trade it
Roll a dub, burn a dub, cough a dub, taste it
Then, watch us chase it
With a handful of pills, no chasers
Jaw clenching on some super-sized papers
And she bad in a head band
Escaping, her van is a Wonderland
And it's half-past six
Weed's nice 'cause time don't exist
And when the stars shine back to the crib
Superstar lines back at the crib
And we can test out the tables
We got some brand new tables
All glass and it's four feet wide
But it's a must to get us ten feet high
She give me sex in a handbag
I got her wetter than a wet nap
And no closed doors
So I listen to her moans echo
"I heard he do drugs now"
You heard wrong I been on them for a minute, we just never act a fool
That's just how we fuckin' livin'
And when we act a fool, it's probably 'cause we mixed it
Yeah I'm always on that okey dokey
Them white boys know the deal, ain't no fuckin' phony
Big O know the deal, he the one who showed me
Watch me ride this fucking beat like he fuckin' told me
"Is that your girl, what's her fucking story?"
"She kinda bad but she ride it like a fucking pony"
I cut down on her man, be her fuckin' story
Yeah I'm talking 'bout you man, get to know me
Ain't no offense though, I promise you
If you a real man, dude, you gon' decide the truth
But I'm a nice dude with some nice dreams
And we could turn this to a nightmare, Elm Street

La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone, so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone, so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out
La la la la la la la la
I'm so gone so gone
Bring out the glass tables
Whip the 707 out

Whip the 707 out
Whip the 707 out


Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
R-Rich then famous, rich then famous
Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
N-Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous

Young nigga, young nigga I'll rather be richer
Than flexing these cameras and taking these pictures
I'm a young nigga, I walk 'round the hood
Got boss credentials, they callin' me mister
Quick to shoot 3, Derek Fisher
No referee I'm official
I just might pull out my Fisker, you pussy I see your whiskers
Call up the plug no Santa, but he sending trees and gas for Christmas
Whippin' the dope, I terminate it, J's they say it's delicious
I got a bitch in my kitchen, with a onion booty I call her Delicious
And after she water whip it, I make that bitch was the dishes
Back to the Fisker, I'm doing 250, I'm praying I don't get a ticket
Yes I'm a Migo, but I don't wear Dickies, I'll rather put on True Religion
And if you want fame over money my nigga, then you not true to your religion
I'll rather be rich, 'cause it's some niggas that's famous that ain't got shit.

Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
R-Rich then famous, rich then famous
Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
N-Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous

I'll rather be rich, I flex with your bitch
You can have the fame, you can have the gold chain
M's nigga, want them M's nigga
Got some niggas in the hood, they got M's nigga
Ask P, ask me
Northside Migo gang OG
Ridin' round, deuces on a damn Audi
Before I had a deal, young nigga copped it
Them dubs, them fifties, them hundreds, my trap always bunkin' you niggas is funny
I'm laughin' with money, beatin' the block like I'm sonny
Taking them trips making them flip
12 hit the block then I dip
Callin' up P, for the whips
Get in the pot then I WHIP!

Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
R-Rich then famous, rich then famous
Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous
N-Nigga I'll rather be rich then famous


Black shades, Johnny Cage, diamonds go parade
Motorola in the kitchen, whippin' Sonya
My plug look like Pacquiao, his daughter is Kitana
Young rich nigga, getting money until Winter
China Town, China Town, China Town, China Town
Young rich nigga I got plugs out in China Town
China Town, China Town, China Town, China Town
Young rich nigga I got plugs out in China Town

Sellin' that dope to the leems and lames, I pull up and I'm in your lane
That droptop that Audi insane, karate that chop on my brain
Got a main bitch, no name
My main plug, name Fang
He choppin' them bricks and remixin' them chickens
He front me the work, now I got a ticket
I'm bunkin' for China, my diamonds Albino
I got the birds singing like I'm Richie Lionel, I mean Lionel Richie
Finessing the plug, again I did it, my bitches exquisite
My life is expensive, you flexing the rental
Erasing the work, like a #2 pencil
Hoes with me, on the left and the right
I'm feeling like Malcolm 'cause I'm stuck in the middle
You a rat in the hood, Stuart Little
I'm blowing on gas like a fiddle
Young nigga in the hood selling nickels, white boys keep the ice Popsicles
Flip the work, like a acrobat, doing jumping jacks
J's sniff the work off the plate, had a heart attack

Black shades, Johnny Cage, diamonds go parade
Motorola in the kitchen, whippin' Sonya
My plug look like Pacquiao, his daughter is Kitana
Young rich nigga, getting money until Winter
China Town, China Town, China Town, China Town
Young rich nigga I got plugs out in China Town
China Town, China Town, China Town, China Town
Young rich nigga I got plugs out in China Town

Whippin' the coca, no cola
You want it, just hit me on my Motorola
My diamonds are yellow carona, I'm selling the Pissy Fiona
I'm smoking that gas with Obama, I pull up in Zondas, you pull up in Hondas
I laugh at you clowns, Ronald Mcdonald, choppin' a ton of Osama
Mr. Miyagi my plug, I make all the profit, for checkin' his Nazi
I'm feeling like Christopher Wallce, Versace, Versace, Versace
All these damn plugs, and young Takeoff I'm the socket
Beat that block, Bernard Hopkins, I got flavor Baskin Robins
I'm fuckin' Kitana, you know I got Sonya, for days
My diamonds they kick Johnny Cage, Quentin Jackson Rampage
Plug out in ChinaTown, hit my cell and said he got that strength
I rush, he drop the price by the pound in China Town


I mean I just left the Versace store

Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

Versace, Versace, Medusa head on me like I'm 'Luminati
I know that you like it, Versace, my neck and my wrist is so sloppy
Versace, Versace, I love it, Versace the top of my Audi
My plug, he John Gotti, he give me the dozen, I know that they're mighty
Shoes and shirt Versace, your bitch want in on my pockets
She ask me why my drawers silk, I told that bitch "Versace"
Cheetah print on my sleeve, but I ain't ever been in the jungle
Try to take my sack, better run with it, nigga don't fumble

Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

Get that new Truey, I do it Versace
You copped the Honda, I copped the Mazi
You smoke the mid, I smoke exotic
I set the trend, you niggas copy
Cooking the dope, like I work at Hibachi
Lookin' and watching, blow it, hot like some Taki
Come in my room, my sheet Versace
When I go to sleep, I dream Versace
Medusa, Medusa, Medusa
These niggas, they wishing they knew ya
They coppin' the Truey, remixing the Louie
My blunts is fat as Repuschia
Different stripped shirt like I'm Tony the Tiger
I'm beating the pot, Call me Michael
None of you niggas can copy
Look at my closet Versace, Versace

Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

King of Versace, Medusa my wallet
My car is Versace, tiger stripes on my Mazi
I'm dressing so nice, they can't even copy
You think I'm Egyptian, this gold on my body
My money my mission, two bitches they kissing my diamonds
Is pissin, my swag is exquisite
No Offset no preacher, but you niggas listen
Them blue and white diamonds dey look like the Pistons
Codeine sippin, Versace I'm gripping them bands in my pocket
You know that I'm living
I'm draped up in gold but no Pharaoh
Rockin' handcuffs, that's Ferragamo
Bricks by the boat, overload
I'm think I'm the don, but no Rocko
This the life that I chose, bought out the store can't go back no more
Versace my clothes, while I'm sellin them bows
Versace took over, it took out my soul

Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace


It's a brand new day and the birds they chirpin'
It's a brand new day plus my Nextel chirpin'
Y'all niggas got work but y'all never ever workin'
Throwin' money in the club when you know yo' pockets hurtin'

It's a brand new day, got brand new bitches
Wrapping up chickens, I'm leaning, I feel like I'm feenin'
But really I'm trippin'
Only want balance when I rock the Bentley
Gas so loud, y'all niggas can't hear me
Pull out that KLAW, know they gone feel me
Whippin' that Brittney, that Whitney, that Lindsey
Like I'm a chemist, treat 'em like dentist
You showing your benjis on Instagram flexing
Maybe tonight, but ain't got a session
I hate to be you 'cause I know it's depressing
Must think it's upsetting the way that I'm dressing
I walk up in Neiman, I see it I cop it
I pull out my pocket, you pull out your wallet
Who you impressing, you know you ain't got it
Diggin through pockets, changing the topic
Nigga just stop it, it hurt me to see you ain't got it
Make me wanna come out my pocket
I'm a get it back cause a nigga got a sack, so my lil' double cup got full of the act
Young nigga got bricksquad, we crack
If a nigga talkin' back, I'm aimin the strap
It's a brand new day, in a brand new whip, and a brand new 45 sittin' in my lap

It's a brand new day and the birds they chirpin'
It's a brand new day plus my Nextel chirpin'
Y'all niggas got work but y'all never ever workin'
Throwin' money in the club when you know yo' pockets hurtin'

Aye hold up Takeoff, you see that nigga
It's a brand new nigga on the block, hit his ass with a brand new Glock
Knock 'em off the block like he playing hopscotch
My niggas is crazy, we keep the new babies
We ride in Mercedes keep crack like the 80s
They cook it, they whippin', they slavin'
I 'round the city screaming "Mama we made it"
I'm busting them bricks out the wrapper
Too hot for a trapper, so now I'm a rapper
My pot too big, got too much water, so I skrt-skrt with a broke paddle
I see you running with the sack,
Quavo the linebacker so I had to make the tackle
Got Migos in Mexico right now, putting 50 bricks on a horse saddle
I'm servin' them patients, my money is ancient,
My diamonds are lookin' like I bought a ice glacier
Addicted to paper, I movin' to Cali, I roll me a blunt and I go watch the Lakers
So much gas you'll need a ventilator, my house so big got marijuana acres
Pots in the pan, Quavo the baker, money in the jar, look like a saltshaker.

It's a brand new day and the birds they chirpin'
It's a brand new day plus my Nextel chirpin'
Y'all niggas got work but y'all never ever workin'
Throwin' money in the club when you know yo' pockets hurtin'


These bitches see a young nigga
'Cause I'm walkin' round with these hundreds
When I pull up in that Lambo
So fast you ain't even see me coming
I got chickens out in the country
Got a AK finna start drumming
You was talkin' shit behind my back
But now here a nigga you ain't sayin' nothin'
Young rich nigga live forever, my trap game A1
You say that I'm broke how dare ya
I ain't never goin' broke never ever
Your arms and your legs I sever
Then feed em to the sharks for dinner
Quavo too hot like a kettle
Young nigga and I keep the heavy metal

Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' cash nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' to the plug nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
If you ain't talkin' Benji's nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' gwala nigga adios

You talkin' bout cash adios
I pull up in drop top convertible Rolls
My chain is all gold, the Fendi to Gucci to Louie
I see it I buy what I want
Young rich nigga I take a toast
Finessin' Pablo, he gotta go
Up on the boat, finesse Pablo out his O's
Meetin' up with Carlito
I'm takin' the trip cross the globe
The dope that I smoke get you high, UFO
I see that you ain't gettin' it back, no repo
It's for me though, bitch adios
You standin' and lookin' like you seen a ghost
Maybe it's 'cause I'm in this Phantom Ghost
I'm trippin' I just finessed you out the do'
Finessin' the plug, it's adios

Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' cash nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' to the plug nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
If you ain't talkin' Benji's nigga adios
Adios, adios, adios
You ain't talkin' gwala nigga adios


Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana
Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana
I got molly, I got white
I got molly, I got white
I been trapping, trapping, trapping, trapping all damn night

Hannah Montana I'm selling them bricks out the phantom
Got Hannah Montana I'm drinking the lean out the phantom
Glaw, Glaw, Glaw, fuck nigga got anna
Got your bitch, she white, Hannah Montana in a Panamara
She a college girl, but her wrist Katrina
In the kitchen, and she baking like Anita
Hit the club, diamonds shining like I'm drinking Magarita
I'm in London with the plug, getting the same car as the Beatles
Got bricks in the Audi, the Hannah Montana, the molly go crazy
Got Lizzy Mcguire, Got Linsey Lohan and I can't forget about Katie
I keep the white like the 80s, I keep the white like I'm Shady
Put the white rims on the Mercedes, young nigga feel like Pat Swayze

Hannah Montana, Hanna Montana, Hanna Montana, Hanna Montana
Hannah Montana, Hanna Montana, Hanna Montana
I got molly, I got white
I got molly, I got white
I been trapping, trapping, trapping, trapping all damn night

Got your main bitch on the handle, she dropping and popping no castles
I'm smoking on gas like tobacco, I'm drinking on lean taste like Snap
In the vip rolling a cord, passing out mollies to foreigns
They popping them like they some Skittles, 2 bitches one me, Malcolm in the middle
Hop off up in the new Bugatti, cameras flashing paparazzi
She popping that castle, no Nazi 
I'm twisting the rock like I'm Rocsi
She sweating like she ran a mile, she soaking wet she need a towel
She sucking her lip, biting down
She moaning and making them sounds
She came while she sucking me now
I'm looking at her like damn
Hannah making them go bananas
She fucking and sucking on camera
Pop a handle, she got stamina
My jag, still a Panorama
I'm beating the pussy like Michael, I call her Dirty Diana

Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana
Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana, Hannah Montana
I got molly, I got white
I got molly, I got white
I been trapping, trapping, trapping, trapping all damn night


Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trap, trapping out the house with the boards on the windows

Trapped out the bando, got two like Rambo
Cop bird like birdman, got white like Lindsay Lohan
Made a hundred stacks off the pots and pans
On the corner serving grams, my niggas be on the block hard
My niggas be selling that hard, got bricks, like Shaq, at the free throw
You can call my phone, got them pricey for the LO, don't knock at my door, I don't wanna talk to you
Got them bricks for the LO, I will serve you
In the bando, boarded up, got them bricks in the wall and in the floor
Piece saran while I'm playing with the dough, if the feds wanna talk, I just tell them I don't know
Fuck twelve!

Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trap, trapping out the house with the boards on the windows

Trapping in the vacant, serving all my patients
Get it from the Haitians, smoking loud my eye look Asian
Getting to the money, running to it, tryna chase it
Like it when she make it, cook it when she naked
Throw it in the microwave, Betty Crocker how I bake it
Trapping in the bando, big guns like commando
Flip it like a sandal, foreign bitch she look like J.Lo
Get a brick from Venezuelo, meet the plug his name is Pedro

Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trap, trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapped out the bando, trapped out the bando
Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows

Trapping out the house with the boards on the windows
All new camaro with the black and red interior
Migo gang taking over, yeah we is superior
Certified packs nigga you can check the serial
Foreign bad bitch and she say her name Trina
Traphouse look like it got hit by hurricane Katrina
These pounds bought a beamer, everything I do illegal
The bitches always wanna mingle, I'm stacking my money like pringles
Sipping on sprite and codeine, my foreign bitch Philippine
Her girlfriend Chinese, sipping on lean and popping a bean
Diamonds come from Africa, sipping on lean and smoking loud
Feel like I'm on salvia, flipping the work with no spatula


Everywhere I go, I'm a plug my show, you know I gotta turn up
I just left the plug, got a 100 birds and I put them in the trunk
Yeah I got halves, got zips, got kilos, got pounds, nigga tell me what you want
In the kitchen with a pyrex pot, turn it up a notch
Now I'm bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got them chickens wiith me, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, got them Falcons with, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got me whipping up them babies, bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
And I'm whipping, I can straight up whip it up

I whip it like slavery, my trap full of babies
Lil mama she hate me, she say that I'm changing
I tell her I made it, the only changed the money I'm making, and the pamper on these babies
I'm whipping and whipping, these pigeons and chickens
These birds they flying from city to city
I'm pouring up actavist, dranking and sipping
The color is purple, I'm drinking on Ceely
The Bentley, the Benjis, these bitches they sucking like babies
On the nip of them titties, like VIC get silly
You talking bout 100 band juugs, young nigga you know that I'm with it
I pull up, I'm serving your city
I'm serving ODs, I got it from Mickey

Everywhere I go, I'm a plug my show, you know I gotta turn up
I just left the plug, got a 100 birds and I put them in the trunk
Yeah I got halves, got zips, got kilos, got pounds, nigga tell me what you want
In the kitchen with a pyrex pot, turn it up a notch
Now I'm bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got them chickens wiith me, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, got them Falcons with, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got me whipping up them babies, bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
And I'm whipping, I can straight up whip it up

I'm cooking and whipping up pies, with no eyes
I'm cooking them burgers and fries, I'm a master in disguise
Mama she told I'm wise, looking at Benjamin Frank in his eyes
I'm taking the plug to Hawaii, I'm chopping on bricks circumcised
My bitch, she came from Dubai, she got that good brain like Devry
I'm smoking and leaning and driving, I hope I don't get DUI
Watch out for the snake and the lies, I'm trapping and whipping cream pies
My wrists is like water come dive, the streets is a jungle you gotta survive

Everywhere I go, I'm a plug my show, you know I gotta turn up
I just left the plug, got a 100 birds and I put them in the trunk
Yeah I got halves, got zips, got kilos, got pounds, nigga tell me what you want
In the kitchen with a pyrex pot, turn it up a notch
Now I'm bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got them chickens wiith me, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, got them Falcons with, now I'm bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
Got me whipping up them babies, bout to cook it up
Bout to cook it up, bout to cook it up
And I'm whipping, I can straight up whip it up


Call rel money, talm bout money
Nothing but hunnids
That's the sound of them mocking birds and they humming
Bow bow prow, that's them hollow tips as they comin'
Up with yo skirt!
Woo woo, fuck Gwinnett County
Fuck!

Da fuck?
Aye throw that shit, throw that shit 12 outside
Hurry up man, hurry up man
Let go nigga, let's go put 'em up

It's a knock at my front door
12 kickin' in my front door
Now we running out the back door
Drop the pistol, this the life of that bando

It's a knock at my front door
12 kickin' in my front door
Now we running out the back door
Drop the pistol, this the life of that bando

It's a knock on my front door
They looking for Takeoff, they heard on the streets I be selling that blow (who?)
It's a pot on a stove
Up in a bowl, 100 blunts rolled (gas)
I hit the back door
Me and Quavo meet Offset at the store
Call real money, talking bout money
Nothing but hunnids
That's the sound of them mocking birds as they humming
That's them hollow tips as they coming
Pull up, I skirt in the Audi
Hit 200 on the highway
Skip going crazy in Mazzie
Driving like a nigga caught a body
Next day pull up in the Rari
Versace my belt like Ed-Hardy's
I'm selling them burgers like Hardee's
My white boy he told me I'm gnarly

It's a knock at my front door
12 kickin' in my front door
Now we running out the back door
Drop the pistol, this the life of that bando

Man fuck, my mama hit my phone
12 in my home, they won't leave me alone
Might flush that work
Skip 'bout to dip, he running with a zip
It's 100 on 'em, made a quick trip
Make a U-Turn, get outta here
Too-too many snakes in the grass, man somebody telling
Here go 10 bands skip, get his cerebellum
What you mean hand you the pistol? Here the Mac-11
It's six o'clock right now, I want the nigga dead at 7
Got off the phone with Gucci, he told us we on the news
We all over the channels, 4, 5, 11, and 2
He said, "Be safe lil' bruh, just hit me when you need some money"
We taking G-4 private plane, we 'bout to leave the country

It's a knock at my front door
12 kickin' in my front door
Now we running out the back door
Drop the pistol, this the life of that bando


Hit 'em with that sack, uh oh!, fumble
Little nigga smokin' mid, give that pack back to your uncle

I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man

Quavo, Quavo
Playing with pies wit no eyes Steve Wonder (Stevie!)
In the huddle calling plays just like Christian Ponder (touchdown!)
Hit 'em with that sack, uh-oh, fumble! (fumble!)
Little nigga smokin' mid, give that pack back to your uncle (mids!)
Got a bad bitch, yeah, she asian like Kitana (she bad!)
Got a scope on the sniper rifle, I see the anaconda (I see 'em!)
Talk to Scooter in Dekalb, Quavo, he said "you a road runner"
Free my nigga Offset, ASAP, so a young nigga can get back to the money

I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man

Egg beater my left, Pyrex pot my right
Baking soda on the shelf, beat that pot like Winky Wright
Ever since my daddy left, Mama taught me "son do right"
50 niggas to my left, 50 niggas to my right
50 chickens come a day, 50 chickens come a night
When I whip my work today, They gone find yo ass tonight
All my niggas on go, you know they gone smash on sight
That shit you rap and talk 'bout, nigga, you know that's my life

I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man, I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man
Egg beater in sight, (Whip) put it in my hand (skuuuurt)
I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man, (skuuuurt) I'm the baker's man


Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life, (my life, my life)
This is my life
Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life
This is my life (finesse, finesse, finesse)

Finessed the plug by the check, I hop on a jet, I go to Quebec
When I went to the jeweler didn't know what I wanted
And I told him as long as my diamonds are wet
I am a blessing and you are a curse
I only finesse the plug with words
Placed the order, I ordered the birds
She put 'em in a car then a young nigga skurrt
Teen bands in the suitcase no flex
Young nigga in the hood, walking round sellin nicks
Ever since a young nigga, balling like a Net
And I got a Asian plug, no Jeremy Lin
Let the top back, let your hair blow in the wind
Finesse the plug, I don't need a Benjamin
Judge out of trial so you know I'm innocent
Smoking on gas blunts longer than incense

Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life, (my life, my life)
This is my life
Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life
This is my life (finesse, finesse, finesse)

Juug, Finesse, Steal
I gotta have a mil
I was raised on the hill like Jack and the Jill
Do anything just to pay them bills
My brother caught 15 waiting for the pill
When a nigga broke, he coming at your throat
Tryna' sell the coke but it really is soap
My lil' nigga Shad got smoked
Hungry for the money, trying to get the dough
Shit get real, nigga tried to kill
All this bullshit for a dollar bill
Hoes set you up, they don't give a fuck
Tryna' get ya bucks, watch who you fuck
Plug's like a socket, gotta keep the rocket
Tryna get a profit, running to that money like Sonic
All my cars robotic
No Master P, but "I'm Bout It" gone

Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life, (my life, my life)
This is my life
Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life
This is my life (finesse, finesse, finesse)

Finessing and flexing like Wrestlers
Indian plug in that castle
Bald headed Jag, got cancer
Turn your main bitch to a dirty dancer
I'm cooking and wrapping them chickens
Finessing these niggas on tickets
If I fuck with ya, I'mma give you a straight drop
If its anotha' nigga I gotta remix it
Flipping them patties like Krabby's
My shoes is Prada's or Bally's
Finessing since I can remember
My wrist so cold, December
I'm selling T-bones, they tender
That steel wrapped around me like Bender
Difference between me and you
I'm real and you a pretender

Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life, (my life, my life)
This is my life
Finesser, finesser
Finesser, finesser
This is my life
This is my life (finesse, finesse, finesse)


Yuh, yuh, Migo, Migo, Migo, Migo
Zay, Zay, Zay, shout out to Zay, shout out to Zay, shout out to Zay

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Alberto, Debby, Hurricane Ernesto
I don't talk on the phone, I hit the jet I go see Pablo
J with the ashy knuckles knockin' at my front door
Ran out of dope you might just check with me tomorrow
I'm seeing dead faces, green numbers like the Matrix
He mad 'cause I finessed him with the pack and it's fugazi
Mollies, zans, lean, oxycontins came from Haiti
Baby kids in the trunk, you know I keep them babies, gone!

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Call me Katrina, Katrina, somebody call FEMA my wrist is illegal
In the kitchen hit it with the eggbeater
On the pan you would think my name Peter
Cold as hell so a nigga keep the heater
Bally kicks on like I'm playing FIFA
With the Migos 30 for a feature
Purple lean it's 200 for a liter
Talking about I'm sipping lean by the liter
Y'all niggas still sipping margaritas
Y'all niggas don't know what a bando mean
Y'all niggas saying "boys on the windows"
Keep the wood in my hand, got a splinter
Got the white and tan bricks in the fender
Hurricane wrist spinning like a motor
IPhone been a trap phone, Motorola

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

My wrist be spinning and spinning and spinning
We pullin' in Bentleys we winnin'
You losin', I came to conclusion finessin' the plug he lost and he clueless
The Uzi, the Uzi, they shooting, they shooting
These niggas they droppin' they floppin'
I call up the plug, he pullin' up
The birds they know that they flockin'
My whipgame it is so anxious
We cookin' the dope like it's baking
Young Offset's still in the vacant
We got the best dope in the nation
Them red and white, blue diamonds looking just like the Patriots
Before I sell the dope I let the J's taste it
It is amazing

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane

Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Katrina, call FEMA
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane wrist, hurricane wrist
Hurricane, hurricane, hurricane


Money and the power, you gotta have respect, Benz coupe, Jaguar, G-5 jets
Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas

Young Rich Nigga, I'm draped up in Versace
I went up to the jeweler, when I left I'm playin' hockey
Bad bitches like it, she see Rarris and Buggatis
I'm poppin' bottles in the vip, she rollin' off a Molly
Fendi Prada Louie bally, I don't need a stylist
I'm takin' all my goons to Cali, then we hit the islands
Order up 500 1s, I throw it all it follies
Plug in Japan, so we kick it like karate
Bad bitch from Switzerland, her daddy G. O'Donnie
Every time I'm on the phone we talkin' 'bout some money
I weigh it up, and wrap it up, I ship it across the country
The streets a concrete jungle, play the game like it's Jumanji

Money and the power, you gotta have respect, Benz coupe, Jaguar, G-5 jets
Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas

My pockets is sloppy, only buy Rarris and Gottis
My clothes are exotic, Versace you copy
Migo gang is my posse, takin' over like the Nazi's
I just got out the county, money old like Bill Cosby
Hunnid bands, in all hundreds, when I make it rain it thunder
Cop a Lam every summer, wrappin' bricks like it's a condom
I'm a rich nigga bitch, don't even think about licks
Slap a nigga with a stack, then I piss on that bitch
In the club sippin lean, but I'm still buying cris
Shawty wanna talk to Off-Set, bitch you ain't on the list
Don't mix the lean with the sprite, drink my mud out the seil
I'm in Louie and Bally, I rock my bitches Chanel

Money and the power, you gotta have respect, Benz coupe, Jaguar, G-5 jets
Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas

Young Rich Nigga follow me like Twitter
All green diamonds on my neck look like the Riddler
Red white and green Louis bought them on the day of Christmas
I'm the teacher you the student put you in detention
I got the camic you my chef and put you in the kitchen
Now you dirty dancing boarding wippin washing dishes
I took yo main bitch and then I turned her to my mistress
Pull up in Audi pull up in Rarri whip full of net it is a mystery
The rich nigga of the century it's going down in history
Energizer bunny wrist keep going it got energy
Back then you ain't know me now that sack make you remember me
Got that 45 for my enemy tell the Lord forgive the sin in me

Money and the power, you gotta have respect, Benz coupe, Jaguar, G-5 jets
Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas, Young Rich Niggas


I like the way she wear it, uh, baby, wiggling
I like the way she do it, uh, baby, jiggling
I like the way she move, damn, do that shit again
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, damn, shorty balling
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman

She changed her hair again, but no, she no drag queen
She had it... red then she turn it money green
Bread watches... it's that money team
Band jump like trampoline in my Billy Jean
Turn around, smoke it, don't stay
Switch your hair around like you're around me
Your hair matching my drink, I'm a need you on the whole pay
It's like going on a date with a different woman every time I step out
Your hair stand out, my money go up
She change her hair, so many colors, it's like a living color
Her pussy wet just like the water
I bought a pound, we smoked a quarter

I like the way she wear it, uh, baby, wiggling
I like the way she do it, uh, baby, jiggling
I like the way she move, damn, do that shit again
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, damn, shorty balling
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman

It was black but she changed that shit to blonde, man
She... girl, yeah, she my fall in, girl
She charged it reel 'less she riding I my charter
She wanna marry me, I told her maybe one day
She paint it blue so I turn her on her pee way
Double G is her wing, man, solely color, her Gucci
... On her finger, the only color I look for
They follow my wheels, around my fortune like they figure this
Pull up to the light, jump out, I tie my shoe, jump in my Bentley
Half a nation my pit stop but don't stand for friendly
Got a nigga going like look, cameras, you ready to die like Big, yeah?

I like the way she wear it, uh, baby, wiggling
I like the way she do it, uh, baby, jiggling
I like the way she move, damn, do that shit again
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, damn, shorty balling
She changed her hair again, damn, Dennis Rodman

Rad bitch, rad tag, no, I just saying we Robin Hood
My bitch he in different color like a box of Crayola
She whipping they all
They gaping here, got an auto, my bitches, they could cross the border
That's no, but yes, she a snorter, I'm sipping on that, you sipping on water
I got a bitch like Pocahontas... live in Jumanji
Saying with your feet and your nails done then I gotta do a little something
So stop with all the fronting, and let the H cage...
I'm a keep it 100, I can turn you into something
You blonde, light brown, now red, what's next?
Shot up and let me, she flex, we pull up in them Bentleys
Walk through the city, no standing, wind blowing through her windmill
She saw me and fuck me so good that night
Woke up and bought her this Fendi

I like the way she wear it, uh, baby, wiggling
I like the way she do it, uh, baby, jiggling
I like the way she move, damn, do that shit again
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, uh, Dennis Rodman
She changed her hair again, damn, shorty balling
She changed her hair again, damn, Dennis Rodman


Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, rest in peace, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, rest in peace, OG Dee
Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, R.I.P, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, R.I.P, OG Dee

Two cups filled up with actavis
Damn! rest in peace, to PIMP C
Louis V all over me I'm living luxury
Take a minute, rest in peace, OG Dee
I remember the last time when double talked to me
Told me y'all the hottest niggas in the street
He told me 'bout the dirty world and fucked up industry
These niggas they don't love you and they want you for your currency
So I go buy a pint of lean
I'm thinking bout moving to Canada but I know they 'gon be still watching me
I know that they're after me, but I won't let them capture me
And everyday, and every night, I pray they won't shackle me!

Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, rest in peace, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, rest in peace, OG Dee
Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, R.I.P, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, R.I.P, OG Dee

Lost my daddy, young nigga I was only four
Damn! now I gotta pour a four
Got my momma on my back, she really love me though
Taking all this pressure so I had to pull a kick door
I understand I have committed a sin
Double Dee said keep going hard on these fuck niggas, gotta know we 'gon win
So I'm sitting in my room reading the Bible
Skip wiping down a dirty rifle
Never know when it's your last supper nigga, so you gotta keep you some disciples, gone!

Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, rest in peace, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, rest in peace, OG Dee
Two cups filled up with easter pink
Take a minute, R.I.P, to PIMP C
Double G, Louis V all over me
Take a minute, R.I.P, OG Dee


Thank you God, Thank you, for errthang, for errthang
Sometimes I don't why you save me, Real shit
Damn, gone

I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Thank you
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
He save me
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Go, Thank the God I'm famous
Thank you God I'm famous
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Yeah
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Amen
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Uh
Thank you God I'm famous
Thanking God I'm famous

I don't know why the lord save me
I had to get rid of them babies
I'm at the top, I'mma Uranus, Versace my neck and my pinky
My momma she told me I made it, I'm tired of my family slavin'
Daddy was a hospital patient, next thing you know he couldn't make it
I put my head down I ain't cry, 'cause then I ain't know what death mean
Then a when a nigga growed up I ain't have my daddy on the scene
So a nigga had to lend to his momma, So a nigga had to go chase commas
Use to eat dollar menu at mcdonalds, now I'm eating big plates at
Benihanas, gone

I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Thank you
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
He save me
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Go, Thank the God I'm famous
Thank you God I'm famous
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Yeah
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Amen
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Uh
Thank you God I'm famous
Thanking God I'm famous

It's first thang I do when I wake up
I'm thanking the lord stay prayed up
It's hard out here for a young nigga
If you ain't got heart you get ate up
Just tryin' to maintain and stay out that cell without breakin the law
But it's hard as hell, the man above for showing me love
I'm taking them trips to Beverly Hills, runnin' through hoes
And counting them M's, living life high like Invader Zim
Live for today and pray for the next, I only see money
G's on my specs, I sin everday just to get this success
I want it for me, y'all want it to flex
The difference between us it's clear as it gets
Niggas be fake so I show no respect

I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Thank you
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
He save me
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Go, Thank the God I'm famous
Thank you God I'm famous
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Yeah
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Amen
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Uh
Thank you God I'm famous
Thanking God I'm famous

I don't know why the lord save me
All the time I disobey him
You would think I would be in dem cages
So every day I wake and thank him
From kickin dem doors sellin them babies
To walkin' through Jeff for a price of a baby
I swear it's a blessing I never regret it
This shit gets so hetic a nigga start stressing
The kush ain't helpin', lookin' at my Smith and Wesson
Looking for them vegetarians I'm taking yo lettuce and celery
I'm posted on sunset in Beverly Hills my niggas they do this for reals
I'm drinking the Act out the seal got niggas waiting for they appeal

I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Thank you
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
He save me
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Go, Thank the God I'm famous
Thank you God I'm famous
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Yeah
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Amen
I don't know why the lord save me
I don't know why the lord save me
Uh
Thank you God I'm famous
Thanking God I'm famous


You niggas be bitin' my style and I like it
But you niggas know you weren't rapping like this
Trend setter, I'm a trend setter
Knockin' them out like I'm Mayweather
Bando look like it's a homeless shelter
She poppin' that molly like Alka-Seltzer
Whippin' that dope with that terminator
Wrist is spillin' dope all on my Breitling bezel
My mansion got 80 acres
Trap underground, they calling me Undertaker
They wonder why I got the Bentley, the Fisker
I put in work and dedication
50 pairs, Giuseppe steppers
Maison Margiellas, they think I'm on Rocafella
The kid, they call me Slick Rick
I make up a script, they call me the storyteller
I got the Britney, the Whitney, the Iggy, we murdered Versace like Biggie
Fuck nigga we been in that Coogi, it's time to kill em' with Givenchy
Red bottoms, scenes are forensic
Designer frames, limited edition
Pushin' one button, my roof then is missing
Then put my Louboutin till out the kitchen
You turn on the radio you gon' hear every rapper tryna rap like the Migos
Fuck nigga wanna clone?
Been rappin' like this since No Label
Fuck the fame rather be rich
Been gettin' money, since No Label
You waiting' for it, then here it go, intro to No Label

QC, It's funny my nigga right
Cause everybody wanna sound like us
But they don't wanna give us the respect, right?
You fuck niggas gon' learn we started this shit
We the first niggas to come out the A, on that real street shit
That real Northside shit, holdin' their muthafuckin' county down
Not city nigga, county nigga
Tell another nigga to do it like us, nigga
QC the label, money on the table
Migo Gang, No Label!

Way back in the day nigga made No Label in a basement
Young nigga got all that talent
On the radio didn't have a placement
Linked up with the hood
OG Head Hancho, Migos
Then we took over the north
20 dollars to get your song played at Flamingos
Remember the days of hitting licks?
Every Christmas, had to be St. Nick
Payin' bills, tryna meet the rent
My mama she say that she sick of it
I had to go get to the Benjamin
Sorry Your Honor, I'm innocent
Money moves the commitment
No label, my life you witnessed it
From kickin' doors
Taking gold
What did I cash out on? I don't know
I will not tell on my soul
Cause Ion' know if the case closed
I know that you hate that Versace went gold
Now I'm walking round with a blue bankroll
Independent, never ever won't fold

See, I learnt the term from my nigga Biggie, right?
We went from ashy to classy
We went from having shit to fucking your bitch, my nigga
No Label, DJ Ray G
These my muthafucking brothers right here, Migo Gang
What niggas you know made a million in one summer without flipping bricks?
Ask your favorite rapper
I bet he say us, nigga
QC, the label
Hah! No Label!

Locked up on every mixtape
Quavo told me nigga wait
This is the only way we can escape
I realized it when I sat down for an 8
Grandma' told me and Quavo to be patient
Grandma' was a cancer patient
Before she died, she sat us down, said stay together and we're gonna make it
For you niggas don't know
Never really sold dope
But I kicked door
Free my nigga Willy, mane gave him to the dough
He didn't tell a soul
You making me sick to my stomach
I might go and vomit
You niggas is cloning
We not together cause you my opponent
Taking our style nigga we never loaned it
Labels wanna sign, that ain't on my mind
Critics and blogs, you know they ain't lying
Thirty thousand just to look at the time
Twenty five hundred for my Louboutin
Mansion Elan was our stomping ground
Our money big, your money minimized
Taking shots cause your buzz died
Cutting the top off the Lamb' make it circumcised
The world is fucked up but the strong survive

Haha, name your favourite club in Atlanta, my nigga
We ran that shit
We turned Mansion Elan
Into Migos Elan, nigga
We turned up sessions, in the Migos Playhouse nigga
Every strip club
Our main bitch, our side bitch, her side bitch, her side bitch worked there, nigga
We run this motherfuckin' city
We started new Atlanta
These niggas jackin' our swag, they better stand in line
And pay, bitch!


You rappers you wanna be thirty three still tryna copy me
Young rich nigga only 19 and you'd better acknowledge me
Fuck nigga you spitting and rapping like this without Migos consent want apology
The labels keep talking, the critics keep writing and
All because we gettin' currency
I think it's time for extortion
I'm killing you babies, abortion (Kidnap you niggas my Migos will torture you)
I told you I'd rather be rich than famous
Fuck nigga this is my label
These fuck niggas done stole so much goddamn swag, might as well sell it
The critics done said it, I might as well tell it
I'm Activist with my shirt off screaming fuck the world like Makaveli
QC the label! Solid Foundation!
Young nigga on the block with the work to the side
Come up trapping like a fundraiser
Fuck nigga you know I'm a Migo
If I don't have Emmitt, get poked with a razor

Which one of my cars should I drive today? (They all foreign..)
I don't know
Which one of my hoes should I fuck today? (They all bad)
I don't know
Which one of my chains should I put on? Put 'em all on
You niggas you know, you niggas you know that you stealin' my flow
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, whatever you with, my nigga we pressing, my nigga we pressing the button
My niggas ain't stressed they got money, whatever you with, whatever you with, you know that my niggas we with it

They copy the name, they copy the gang, they copy the slang (they copy my name)
Versace, Versace we brought that shit back and you niggas is lame
We hearin' the way that these rappers is rappin' that shit not creative
What's the difference?
We some young niggas that signed to no label
My squad is so deep in the club, your fans and your people don't notice you
All of my niggas got diamonds, they flashin' they look like a photoshoot
I pull up in valet, the Audi got soft top but my top is bulletproof
And now they want jugg and finessin'
Now they want 'sace the necklace
At first we didn't expect it and now we expect it
At first the flow they neglect it and now they respect it
I'm thanking God for the blessing, (to not have a rat in my session)
I know that this game is dirty Smith and Wesson

Which one of my cars should I drive today? (They all foreign..)
I don't know
Which one of my hoes should I fuck today? (They all bad)
I don't know
Which one of my chains should I put on? Put 'em all on
You niggas you know, you niggas you know that you stealin' my flow
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, whatever you with, my nigga we pressing, my nigga we pressing the button
My niggas ain't stressed they got money, whatever you with, whatever you with, you know that my niggas we with it

You must got the rabies, you bitin'
You copy my swag and I like it
Young nigga I'm for sale
Give em' hell!
Put a nigga on a mission, young nigga won't fail
Y'all pussy ass rappers, these niggas they wise
Never trap, never cap, never been in a trial
You with it, I'm with it, them hollows start spitting
These niggas they shaking like Diddy
Gotta pay the trap on my block, extortion
80 percent of your guap
No lie, Versace, it got me a fortune
Enormous money ain't never gone stop
Woke up this morning and I played the radio
Nigga's remedial, sounding like Radio
Them niggas not talking just pullin y'all cards
Dunk a nigga, Vince Carter
Bullets have a nigga dancing like Carlton

Which one of my cars should I drive today? (They all foreign..)
I don't know
Which one of my hoes should I fuck today? (They all bad)
I don't know
Which one of my chains should I put on? Put 'em all on
You niggas you know, you niggas you know that you stealin' my flow
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, we with it
Whatever you with, whatever you with, my nigga we pressing, my nigga we pressing the button
My niggas ain't stressed they got money, whatever you with, whatever you with, you know that my niggas we with it


Ay, ay, count that money up, add it up!
Ay, run that check up, add it up!
Ay, count that knot right here, add it up!
Ay, run and go get that money over there, add it up!
Ay, go get the truckload, get the truckload, add it up!
Migos! Go!

Got hundreds of p's, they comin' in, no Tonka truck
Fuck nigga, he don't believe me, he could go add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
The bricks just came in, the molly came in
The white just came in, you don't believe it, fuck nigga, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up

Add it up like a new calculator
In the trap with two guns like I'm Tomb Raider
Hop on the track with no pen or paper
We blowin' up, I got that detonator
You could add up the dope like accountants
Put that dope in the water, don't drown it
Add it up right now, bet it motherfuckin' lookin'
Like a nigga livin' up on a mountain
I dreamed I woke up in Phantoms, naked bitches in a mansion
I did my calculations, most of you rappers is imitatin'
They back on the island, I'm contemplatin'
Should I shoot to kill in my situation?
Mama said "Quavo, better stay patient!"
The dirt that I done you add up the cases

Got hundreds of p's, they comin' in, no Tonka truck
Fuck nigga, he don't believe me, he could go add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
The bricks just came in, the molly came in
The white just came in, you don't believe it, fuck nigga, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up

Beep! Fff!
That's that money machine and it's addin' up!
The trap is a bakery, whippin' and cookin'
The dope, I send it straight to Canada!
Young Offset trappin' in your area
Jungle fever, got the white and I marry her
I see Justin Bieber, the ghost is way scarier
Hit a juug, fifty bags of the good cannabis
All these other conversations irrelevant
If you ain't talkin' bout Benjamin Frank
Gold fingers like a trophy and painting
Got the 45., turn you to a sharp painting
My pockets is healthy, Zanotti Giuseppe
My money is stretching, my money athletic
Tyler Perry, makin' movies, they epic
I'm not the one from Cuba, that's my necklace

Got hundreds of p's, they comin' in, no Tonka truck
Fuck nigga, he don't believe me, he could go add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
The bricks just came in, the molly came in
The white just came in, you don't believe it, fuck nigga, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up

We fucked the world up when we dropped that "Versace"
It topped the chart, nigga, so add it up
"Versace", it got us a M and 'em
Don't believe me, fuck nigga, then count it up
Stealing my flow, we come to your show
Put you on camera and we embarrass ya
Fuck your management, and your manager
You is a amateur, choppa'll damage ya
Trappin' and cappin', had to make it happen
Trapper turned rapper, my mama happy
On the block trappin', don't serve undercovers
Snakes in that grass, they gon' get you on trouble
If I get jammed, put that on my mama
That I won't tell on my brother
In the bando and I'm countin' the fuck out the p's
Got rich off a pot and some water

Got hundreds of p's, they comin' in, no Tonka truck
Fuck nigga, he don't believe me, he could go add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
The bricks just came in, the molly came in
The white just came in, you don't believe it, fuck nigga, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up
Add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up, add it up


Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!
Peek a boo
My diamonds is shining, hurting your eye
Peek a boo
Look at you
You think that you bad, you know that you not
Look at you
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Peek a boo, (peek a boo) peek a boo, p-p-peek a boo
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!

Walk in the club and my diamonds shine
Gotta knew the set invisible
Young nigga hands in everything
My nigga think I need tentacles
My mansion looking historical
24 karats surrounding my portrait
Try me leave you a memorial
Off in the river they finding you snorkeling
My bitches addicted to Michael Kors
Very "sadiddy" items just like Tom Ford
I got the white like a chalkboard
Break in the trap you gon' pay for it
20 pairs of Christian Louboutins
Pick a shoe, pick a shoe, pick a shoe
They asking bout what it is to beef with you rappers
Sorry I don't want an interview
Thundershock the pot like Pikachu (Pika!)
Where is my revenue?
They investigating like the Blue's Clues
Momma said try different avenues
Most of my people they didn't believe until I turned into a Hercules
Ever since day one we took off
I talked to God, he said 'Murda please!'

Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!
Peek a boo
My diamonds is shining, hurting your eye
Peek a boo
Look at you
You think that you bad, you know that you not
Look at you
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Peek a boo, (peek a boo) peek a boo, p-p-peek a boo
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!

Double R Ghost nigga peekaboo
Broke as a bitch nigga, pitiful
Locked up doing time, Lambo no mind
Jesus pieces, nigga spiritual
I just woke up in a mansion
Wondering how the fuck did this shit happen
The blogs, they say I be snapping
Making a movie, lights, camera, action
I'm beating the pot, knuckles gotta fraction
We invented the flow niggas got it packed
When we walk in the club we the main attraction
Too much smoke in the room, breathing like Toni Braxton
These bitches they loving our personality
You niggas so sweet I might catch a cavity
I'm the king of this shit nigga I'm your majesty
Drinking lean and my bitch drinking Daiquiri

Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!
Peek a boo
My diamonds is shining, hurting your eye
Peek a boo
Look at you
You think that you bad, you know that you not
Look at you
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Peek a boo, (peek a boo) peek a boo, p-p-peek a boo
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!

Just left the jeweler
I bought a Yacht-Master, the master yacht
I just bought a Bentley Mulsanne
They callin' me samurai the way I chop the top
Steve Nash, I pass the rock
Shaquille O'Neal how I block a shot
Three Amigos I might chill at the sharks
Booting your bitch up with molly rocks
That Rolex ain't real if it tic-toc
They asking me when is the mixtape gon' drop
Peekaboo all of my diamonds shining
Pissy my diamonds in China
My necklace dripping down my spinal
I'm richer than Richie no Lionel
Lil' kids they call me their idol
'Cause I inspire and you expire

Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!
Peek a boo
My diamonds is shining, hurting your eye
Peek a boo
Look at you
You think that you bad, you know that you not
Look at you
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Peek a boo, (peek a boo) peek a boo, p-p-peek a boo
Peek a boo
My diamonds Pikachu
Pikachu (eww, fuck out my face)
No way, I don't wanna look at you!


What-you-want, Mi-go!
No, no, no
Migo!
Go!

Call me what you want but you can't call me broke
Pull up with that choppa and a telescope
Got 50 chickens in with me, runnin' around in my city
Young rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys, rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys
We makin' a motion picture, Michelangelo
I'm seein' the snakes in the grass - shhh!
I got the antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope
Antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope

Yo, Quavo
I got the antidope try to come juuggin' and I'm bustin' your cantaloupe
I'm trappin' out of the bando, still got tools like Rambo
I'm feelin' like Harry Houdini
The pack was just here did you see it
The plug he be here any second now
If he didn't then something went down
We losing our bags, gotta go to the stash
At the age of 19, I was running from the task
Put it on my mama, no flex, no brag
Young nigga been had cash
Just me and Rel Money got rich off a half a bag
That's why they mad

Call me what you want but you can't call me broke
Pull up with that choppa and a telescope
Got 50 chickens in with me, runnin' around in my city
Young rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys, rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys
We makin' a motion picture, Michelangelo
I'm seein' the snakes in the grass - shhh!
I got the antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope
Antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope

I got the antidope
I'm feelin' like Scarface, Al Pacino comin' off a banana boat
And how the fuck 200 Migo touchin' down in Mexico
Fuckin' around with Eduardo, told me that he know Armando
Armando fuckin' with Carlos, Carlos wrappin' 'em up in the barcodes
Ridin' around with that Scotty in brand new Bugattis
OG Miley Cyrus, snakes tryna give me the virus
But I got that antidope like I know science but I'm no scientist
Fuckin' around with them bombs but I am no terrorist
Piss on your bitch that R Kelly shit
I'm on Mount Everest sippin' on medicine

Call me what you want but you can't call me broke
Pull up with that choppa and a telescope
Got 50 chickens in with me, runnin' around in my city
Young rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys, rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys
We makin' a motion picture, Michelangelo
I'm seein' the snakes in the grass - shhh!
I got the antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope
Antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope

Austin Powers, you niggas be takin' my Mojo
Young nigga I got the antidope
Coke and baking soda minerals
I got a brick in the figure 4
Young nigga I never make honor roll
But I know how to add up them digits
Whippin' and cookin' and flippin' chickens
You say you got money but pussy nigga you don't have a witness
'Cause I've never seen it
I'm a rich nigga I mean it
Keep talkin' bullets go through yo' beanie
I'm in a Phantom Ghost call that shit Casper
Young nigga plugged in like adapters
Stomp yo' ass out like an Alpha
Ahead of you niggas you still in the first chapter

Call me what you want but you can't call me broke
Pull up with that choppa and a telescope
Got 50 chickens in with me, runnin' around in my city
Young rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys, rich nigga trappin' out Bentleys
We makin' a motion picture, Michelangelo
I'm seein' the snakes in the grass - shhh!
I got the antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope
Antidope, antidope, antidope, antidope


Started with a dollar and dream
From riding Impala with them things
To driving Ferraris with them wings, nigga
Young rich niggas, Migo, Meek Milly

Slide in the pussy like a surfboard
Killing these niggas get a hearse for 'em
Fuck you niggas even sellin work for
You next to tell put your chirp on
Be the main reason pussy niggas gettin' murked for
Little nigga, who you work for?
'Cause I came for the bosses I ain't for no losses
You playin', it's dirt for 'em
And I came from the first floor
Gangbanging hoes like a turf war
Then hit the road for my first tour
My level went up to the third floor
And I swerved on these hating niggas
MIA with some Haitian niggas
Bad bitches keep takin' pictures
I pulled up in that Wraith nigga like whoa!
(Let me talk, Meek Mill)

I bet you didn't know that my niggas make millions (bet you didn't know)
It's sad to say some of my niggas convicted to prison (sad to say)
When you at the top you don't want to look down, you don't want to look down
In a submarine underwater, you don't know how I'm feeling right now

All of my life, I only wanted nothing but Franklin
Touchdown on a fuck nigga
Make him tuck in his shell like he Franklin
You and my niggas are not the same
I jumped out the Lamb' like Bruce Wayne
The ten-piece of chicken is on the way
I told 'em Carlito to andale
You see them new niggas in the back of the club
Just look at them plottin' in conversations
I know they don't know!
I sent the Migos to come back to the bando for translation
(On) camera like Quavo Spike Lee
Heroin black, look like Willie B
If you do the coke, you gon' buy some skis
If you in our trap, you gon' buy some ki's

I bet you didn't know that my niggas make millions (bet you didn't know)
It's sad to say some of my niggas convicted to prison (sad to say)
When you at the top you don't want to look down, you don't want to look down
In a submarine underwater, you don't know how I'm feeling right now

Young Takeoff, I am a professional
Vegetarian, only eat vegetables
I got some kush you can roll up
And I got some kush you can eat that is edible
Stretching the work like I'm Mr. Incredible
You ain't never seen no work as flexible
And I turn on the stove, and I'm whipping the brick
For that pay my, nigga turn to Predator

I bet you didn't know I was twenty-two
Win the judge ten times, what a miracle
Me and my son identical, seventeen years old
I had him I didn't know what to do
I had to put food on the plate!
Asking the Lord, "give a nigga some faith"
Now when I wake up I look at my label
My foot on the pedal not touching the brake
No chess but, nigga, I got me a check!

I bet you didn't know that my niggas make millions (bet you didn't know)
It's sad to say some of my niggas convicted to prison (sad to say)
When you at the top you don't want to look down, you don't want to look down
In a submarine underwater, you don't know how I'm feeling right now


Fuck!
Must be kidding me
Slam my nigga
Nah, nigga don't play with me
Migo!

They say he ran off with the pack, goddamn
They say the plug going out like Nino Brown
They say the nigga that robbed you is in the trap right now
I bet I'd pull up and start dumping at the whole crowd
Nigga better stop playing with me

You know that they taking your style?
It's all on the radio, like right now!
Who the hell said we a one hit wonder?
Migo pockets sloppy like lasagna, nigga stop playing with me

Who the fuck said QC we ain't on top? Gotta be kidding me
Who the fuck said YRN2 gon' flop? Must be kidding me
The niggas that didn't believe in me
The people that didn't believe in me
Versace, Versace it topped the charts
Now I'm on BET and MTV
Remember back then watching Oprah?
Now I'm on the sofa with Oprah
Louboutins all on her sofa
No strings attached cause these loafers
OG gas pack got the odor
Green like Shrek that's an ogre
Taking my swag and exposure
Pull up to your house and foreclose ya'

They say he ran off with the pack, goddamn
They say the plug going out like Nino Brown
They say the nigga that robbed you is in the trap right now
I bet I'd pull up and start dumping at the whole crowd
Nigga better stop playing with me

Thought I fucking told you fuck nigga better stop playing with me
Hop out with the dirty stick, the drum, holds infinity
My bitch ridin' down with 50 chicks in an SRT
I ain't make it out of high school, it ain't no shame in me
I'm richer than my teachers, damn I know I bet they mad at me
With yo' red light on, in the bando get it like Krispy Kremes
Hit the pot with the left hook, Quavo-Kareem
You ain't never seen a mountain of snow on that triple beam

They say he ran off with the pack, goddamn
They say the plug going out like Nino Brown
They say the nigga that robbed you is in the trap right now
I bet I'd pull up and start dumping at the whole crowd
Nigga better stop playing with me

All of you niggas you mimic me, you kidding me? Literally
Controlling the block with good quality
Hurricane in the kitchen, a catastrophe
I'm number one you other niggas after me
Wrapping my bitch up in diamonds from Tiffany's
Everyday a holiday, epiphany
All you pussy niggas talking and bickering
It don't even make no goddamn sense
Cuffing the same bitch I fucked that's my bitch
Whoosh, pack gone missing
Soon as its touchin my hand it's disappearing instantly
Diamonds on me looking like it's a photo
Giuseppe's and now they walking on komodo
Feelin' like Austin they stealing my mojo
Trapping and capping we selling that yayo

They say he ran off with the pack, goddamn
They say the plug going out like Nino Brown
They say the nigga that robbed you is in the trap right now
I bet I'd pull up and start dumping at the whole crowd
Nigga better stop playing with me


Real Deal M
Young rich nigga
Migos
Young rich nigga
Real Deal M
Go Go Go Go

M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Got some niggas in the hood
They got M's nigga
M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Yo rich nigga ain't got no deal
I want them M's nigga

Walking around with them M&amp;M's (Young rich nigga)
Snake nigga in the grass
Young nigga you need to get rid of him
Came from the bottom (Bottom)
Now I've got gualla (Cash)
I'm trapping and capping
I'm cooking that fix with no flour
My plug live in Mongolia
Finessing in Cambodia
Got Iggy Azalea in the kitchen
And she make it from Australia (Go whip whip)
My teacher always told me
Quavo you gon be a failure
I seen her yesterday
And put her number in my cellular (Let's go)

M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Got some niggas in the hood
They got M's nigga
M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Yo rich nigga ain't got no deal
I want them M's nigga

M&amp;M M&amp;M M&amp;M's
Ain't talking about candy (Ain't talking about candy)
The work come in on a boat
So big it look like the Titanic (Damn)
My niggas they selling Mariah
So they strapped up with that cannon (White)
Nigga we business
I'm with the rich fuck the famous
Son you can have it (I'd rather be rich)
Fuck nigga I walk in the club with my Ruger
I flex with ice on my medusa
These niggas be ducking and dodging
When they see me
They stealing my swag
And they want to be with QC
Angelina Pitt Jolie
I'm beatin' the pot like Muhammad Ali
Feeling like president Lincoln and Malcolm X
They tryna assassinate me

M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Got some niggas in the hood
They got M's nigga
M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Yo rich nigga ain't got no deal
I want them M's nigga

Money the mulla
Medusa maneuver
A Ruger for pussy intruders
I'm smoking on gas like hookah
We fought for the top
Throwing bows like we Luda
I remember the day
When we would jugg at computers
My bitch in Bermuda
These haters be starting up so many rumors
Finessing a country ass nigga in Newnan
Offset is the don and you niggas is puny
QC the label got money on the table
Top floor condo got to use the elevator
Trappers be biting just like it's a gator
Leaving them holes in a nigga like vega
I'm the talk of the talk
Interviews by Fader
Thanking the Lord for my Ms in my Prayers
I'm a young black nigga with all white neighbors
I stay in a Mansion with Forty Acres

M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Got some niggas in the hood
They got M's nigga
M's nigga (M)
Want them M's nigga (Real deal M)
Yo rich nigga ain't got no deal
I want them M's nigga


If you know me know this ain't my feng shui
Certified everywhere, ain't gotta print my resume
Talking crazy, I pull up andele
R.I.P to Nate Dogg, I had to regulate

Public Service Announcement
Where all my rich niggas at man?
Migo!

Broke niggas stand to the left
My rich niggas stand to the right
Lil' mamma, she keep looking at me (lil' mama!)
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Hit it with the left, hit with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Beat it with the left, beat it with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night

If you know me know this ain't my feng shui
Certified everywhere, ain't gotta print my resume
Talking crazy, I pull up andele
R.I.P to Nate Dogg, I had to regulate
Pocket rocket fire, watch him disintegrate
It's a truckload coming on the interstate
Sirloin steak all on my dinner plate
Your main bitch say she wanna make a sex tape
Rich nigga, I could never be a broke nigga (rich nigga)
Broke niggas I can never get along with them!
Always been hated since a little nigga (always)
It's forever pussy nigga gotta deal with it (rich nigga!)

Broke niggas stand to the left
My rich niggas stand to the right
Lil' mamma, she keep looking at me (lil' mama!)
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Hit it with the left, hit with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Beat it with the left, beat it with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night

Float like a butterly, sting like a bee
Rumble young nigga rumble!
Lil' mamma want a nigga like me in the sheets
Ice cube knock it out like Deebo
Now who's that talking that gangsta shit?
Somebody gonna kick your ass
When I walk up in the club I better make a thunderstorm
Let them know that this a whole lot of cash
Rich niggas on the right all night (rich nigga)
Broke niggas to the left by yourself (brokanese)
Now who the hell just said that the roof on fire?
Call 911 like Wyclef

Broke niggas stand to the left
My rich niggas stand to the right
Lil' mamma, she keep looking at me (lil' mama!)
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Hit it with the left, hit with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Beat it with the left, beat it with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night

I'm a rich nigga, I don't like a bitch nigga
Nigga broke nigga, I don't deal with you
All of my niggas, official, My bitches they strippers
My niggas they criminals trying to get to the M&amp;Ms
If your bitch is so innocent, why she sucking my children
Last time I asked I dine and dashed and bitch I go in the building
Bad bitch make it clap, let me know ya
Young rich nigga on the couch talking to Oprah
Bottles in the VIP while I stand on the sofa
I don't speak your language, Brokanese, I thought I told ya
These bitches they be smokin' on hookah, my nigga ballin' like Hoosiers
Geeked up in the Double R, I scare ya bitch, Freddy Krueger
Freddy Vermeulen

Broke niggas stand to the left
My rich niggas stand to the right
Lil' mamma, she keep looking at me (lil' mama!)
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Hit it with the left, hit with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night
Beat it with the left, beat it with the right
I'm'a knock the pussy out like fight night


I don't know why I came in this club with you, girl
Don't know why I came in with these diamonds on my chain
Surrounded by bad bitches I can't get 'em out my face
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy?
Is it cause a nigga cook like a professor?
I don't know how you feel can you tell me
I won't know how you feel till you tell me
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy

Is it 'cause I'm a star
It maybe could be my star status
I got my chain and ring
My Rolex watch it got 50 carats
It could be QC or even maybe it's me
It could be that 4 hour flight, shopping in Beverly
What's on your mind?
I'm not Ginuwine
Ain't tryna spend no time
I know my bitch she so fine
But I don't know what's on her mind
Gotta pay that cost to be a boss
I put on my Louboutins playing golf
Young nigga walking with Nina Ross
I'm dropping the bombs like Viet Cong

I don't know why I came in this club with you, girl
Don't know why I came in with these diamonds on my chain
Surrounded by bad bitches I can't get 'em out my face
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy?
Is it cause a nigga cook like a professor?
I don't know how you feel can you tell me
I won't know how you feel till you tell me
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy

They say I'm picky cause all my bitches exquisite
I'm in some vintage Givenchy smokin' a Philly
The dope that I sell is the purest
The junkies they hit it, they scratchin' and itchin'
The flow that we killin', the flow that we spittin'
My nigga you know we invented it
Dripping in St. Louis, I'm a lunatic
I'm a Migo but my bitch an immigrant
I got the boot but no Timberland
I am the plug, you the middle man
I never leave my niggas starvin'
You niggas mistake me for Marvin
I got 15 bricks I'm finna drop
In there right next to that carbon

I don't know why I came in this club with you, girl
Don't know why I came in with these diamonds on my chain
Surrounded by bad bitches I can't get 'em out my face
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy?
Is it cause a nigga cook like a professor?
I don't know how you feel can you tell me
I won't know how you feel till you tell me
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy

Is it my looks or is it my wealth?
Or is it the way that I carry myself?
Let me know I need some help
Don't keep that secret to yourself
Bitches be saying I'm acting funny cause a young nigga got a lotta money
She lookin' at me like she want somethin'
Can't give her nothin' but a couple hundreds
She sucked up on a nigga, tryna give a nigga kisses baby girl you trippin'
I don't know how you feel can you tell me
I know why you came
In this club tonight
Looking for a nigga that's gon' change your life

I don't know why I came in this club with you, girl
Don't know why I came in with these diamonds on my chain
Surrounded by bad bitches I can't get 'em out my face
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy?
Is it cause a nigga cook like a professor?
I don't know how you feel can you tell me
I won't know how you feel till you tell me
Is it cause a nigga handsome and wealthy


Wassup Pablo? What's poppin'?
You got them birds? D-low?
I need 'em, I want it

Had this dream that I woke up in a 'Rari
Can't fuck with you niggas, I'm sorry
I'm too fly, I spread my wings and I'm soaring
Used to trap them birds, now I'm fly like a bird
B-birds
B-b-birds
Birds

J's hit my phone if you want a bird
My niggas out right now on the curb
You can get a re-rock
You can get a whole serve
We locked and now I can front you
Young nigga that's my word
Walk in the bando, look at all them birds
Bando get low, re-up on the birds
Got shooters on pronto
Don't got no undo
At the age of 17 I hit my first kick do'
Just me and Willie Mac, Offset
Shoutout Domingo
Then 12 tried to get me
For gang activity
The judge dropped the charge, and I thank lord
That's why I take this mic and I go hard

Had this dream that I woke up in a 'Rari
Can't fuck with you niggas, I'm sorry
I'm too fly, I spread my wings and I'm soaring
Used to trap them birds, now I'm fly like a bird
B-birds
B-b-birds
Birds

Offset!
Just got the word, just got the birds
Shabba Ranks gold only kick it with Ferg
You think you finessing me? Run off with ya bird
You gotta be kidding me
Charles Barkley, I got that broccoli
Fuckin' these bitches committing adultery
Trap fulla babies like an elementary
Bando with burglar bars, plugged in with Italian mobs
Don't never put trust in a broad
I'm puttin' my trust up in God
I got birds, I got chickens, I got seagulls
Too many birds, my gun is an eagle
When I talk birds, I'm talkin' a kilo!

Had this dream that I woke up in a 'Rari
Can't fuck with you niggas, I'm sorry
I'm too fly, I spread my wings and I'm soaring
Used to trap them birds, now I'm fly like a bird
B-birds
B-b-birds
Birds

The plug just hit my phone
For some funions, want an onion
Exotic crocodile skin Martens, call me Dundee
Tito want a brick, chico gotta cross the country
Carlito for a hundred, gave bout 50 to my mama!
I'm an OG in my hood, no Aretha, well respected
Toucan Sam pigeons, call me Ace Ventura, Pet Detective
I see falcons on a daily basis, Takeoff Arthur Blank
Whippin' chickens in the kitchen
Trap smell like a septic tank
Rockin' gold everything, talkin' bout jewelry not the sink
I don't need no translator, I comprehend in a way
My plug Carlito, he can't speak no englo
All he knows is "andale"
I got bandos for the L-O
State-to-state, no real estate

Had this dream that I woke up in a 'Rari
Can't fuck with you niggas, I'm sorry
I'm too fly, I spread my wings and I'm soaring
Used to trap them birds, now I'm fly like a bird
B-birds
B-b-birds
Birds


Pour that shit up fool, the sauce - monster!
Man so you ain't gonna pour?
Oh so you're gonna make a nigga beg you to pour? Okay bool

Hopped out my mothafuckin' bed
Hopped in the mothafuckin' coupe (Skrr)
Pulled up on the Birdman (Brr)
I'm a beast, I'm a beast, I'm a mobster
You got 50 whole bands, you'll be my sponsor (just for the night)
Them snakes on the plane, me and Cognac-conda (condas)
Yeah
I might piece him up and let my partner smoke him
Chuck E Cheese, I'm about pizza and my Rol' on
I'm a gangster, I don't dance, baby I poke
Right now I'm surrounded by some gangsters from Magnolia
I heard I put it in the spot, yessir she told me
My niggas muggin', these niggas YSL only
I heard my Nolia niggas not friendly, like no way
But we not friendly either, you know it
Yeah thumbs up
I've seen more holes than a golf course on Donald Trump's course
My bitch a tall blooded horse, nigga, bronco
And if you catch us down bet you're not gon' trunk us
You got a body, lil nigga, we got a ton of 'em
You got some Robin's, lil nigga, we got some Batmans
I let that choppa go "blocka, blocka," get back, son
You got them MJs, nigga, I got them Jacksons (racks)

But really what is it to do
When the whole world constantly hatin' on you?
Pussy niggas hold their nuts, masturbatin' on you
Meanwhile the fuckin' federal baitin' on you
Nigga tell me what you do
Would you stand up or would you turn to a pussy nigga?
I got a hundred things to do
And I can stop rappin' but I can't stop stackin' fuckin' figures

Yeah, I'm from that mothafuckin' 'Nolia, nigga
Birdman'll break a nigga nose, lil' nigga
You need to slow your fuckin' roll, lil' nigga
We created Ks on shoulders, nigga
I'm a scary fuckin' sight, lil' nigga
We won a hundred mil' on fights, lil' nigga
A hundred bands, sure you're right, lil' nigga
I keep some AKs on my flights, lil' nigga
Birdman Willie B
Smoke some stunna blunts, now my eyes Chinese
Hundred K on private flights overseas
Choppas City nigga, free BG
Bentley with the doors all 'round, not a Jeep
Rich nigga shit, smoke two pounds in a week
Can't find a bitch that don't know we them streets
Bitches know that I am Birdman, that's OG

But really what is it to do
When the whole world constantly hatin' on you?
Pussy niggas hold their nuts, masturbatin' on you
Meanwhile the fuckin' federal baitin' on you
Nigga tell me what you do
Would you stand up or would you turn to a pussy nigga?
I got a hundred things to do
And I can stop rappin' but I can't stop stackin' fuckin' figures

Nigga I'm a crack addict
Thought about lettin' them get a cut, then I went and snagged at it
The new Boosie Badazz at it
I'ma drop a nigga life, just like a bad habit
I stick to the ground like a mothafuckin' rug
I'm a big dog, lil' fuck nigga you a pug
Lil' bitch clean your drawers before you think you're a thug
Before I be in front your shows, just like your pub
I ain't even lyin', baby
I swear to God I ain't lyin', baby, no
First I'll screw you without these pliers, baby
I might dap you like, "good try, baby"
Big B livin', baby
Them boys on my left throwin' up Cs
I promise their mama see them this week
And I don't break promises with my Ds (them my dogs)
I want Ms and cheese, mister Mickey Ds
She know I am a beast, I am so a beast
In Miami I swear they don't got good weed
Wiz Khalifa can you send me some weed please?


Yeah, overseas, nigga, top floor, clear windows, nigga
Glass house, drankin' GT, you understand?
We in that Red Light District, you understand?
3 and 1, that mean 3 on me, nigga, you understand me?
Just livin' the life, boy, aye Thug, just a dollar for a 1, nigga
We can blow a mil', boy. Rich Gang, YSL, blatt!


Hunnid' bands, hunnid' bands
Dropped on the head of any nigga that want it man
Pop me a Xanny I'm fast
I'm so fast, I'm so faster than Sonic man
True the man, true the man, true to my nigga
True religion, Buddha man
My money stack tall like Ludacris afro
And I swear I'ma shoot with that
I just hit for 9 birds, what I'ma do with that?
Pull up on the curb, then you hop out and be through with that
I'm so fresh like dish detergent
If you not fresh she so through with that
If you are a nerd, everything here you not cool with that

Yes you not cool, no you not bool
I don't give no damn I'm not calling you boo
My bitch she a jewel
You can't prove a point, boy you know you so doomed
You know you so doomed
I swear I'm so lost with no clue
Don't know what to do
Over load, over load I over load on these niggas
Ain't know how to milk these cows
She made that dick grow now it's big like a tower
Yaow, front pockets filled up with bands, no bible

Hunnid' bands, hunnid' bands
Dropped on the head of any nigga that want it man
Pop me a Xanny I'm fast
I'm so fast, I'm so faster than Sonic man
True the man, true the man, true to my nigga
True religion, Buddha man
My money stack tall like Ludacris afro
And I swear I'ma shoot with that
I just hit for 9 birds, what I'ma do with that?
Pull up on the curb, then you hop out and be through with that
I'm so fresh like dish detergent
If you not fresh she so through with that
If you are a nerd, everything here you not cool with that

Pull up, hop out on the block, they tuck in they tail
I go "Who the clan?"
Dressed in all black
I'm always on the road, just like a uber man
We wrappin' and sendin' them packs
Soon as they land we movin' em
Blame it on the OG's, they influenced me on everything
Count money nigga, I ain't just made money, nigga
I put lipstick on the rari, she say that's delicious
Who that is in that Crown Vic, he look suspicious (Shhh)
I just jugged 100 pounds, I made a...

Hunnid' bands, hunnid' bands
Dropped on the head of any nigga that want it man
Pop me a Xanny I'm fast
I'm so fast, I'm so faster than Sonic man
True the man, true the man, true to my nigga
True religion, Buddha man
My money stack tall like Ludacris afro
And I swear I'ma shoot with that
I just hit for 9 birds, what I'ma do with that?
Pull up on the curb, then you hop out and be through with that
I'm so fresh like dish detergent
If you not fresh she so through with that
If you are a nerd, everything here you not cool with that


Niggas say they fuck with you, I can't tell
500, 000 dollar Chevelle
I got bricks and birds for retail
I got 100, 000 worth of belts
These bitches and these niggas know that they can't play around here
I call the spot elementary 'cause I keep a K around here
All my Hatians if you play they make you grady baby
I might shoot you in your head and that is no more thinking
Pussy boy I'll leave you dead and call it dead-ication
I put Act inside my drink, they call it medication

Hold up, pull up, roll up, pour up
Ounces in a soda
Push up on your bitch and shawty I didn't even know her
See this hood I throw up, realest one I ever seen
ATL, call it XXL, 'cause we stay spittin' shells outta long magazine
Real nigga got a crown, better own that thing
If the game got a throne, bet I'm on that thing
Beloved dope dealer and a well known King
And a killer 'pending on how you put your spin on things
You know how many suckers get ahead I've seen?
'Bout the same amount of pussy niggas dead I've seen
You know how many bitches in the bed I've seen?
They like asking me how much bread I've seen
More than enough, in God we trust
You love a real niggas then fuck with us
But if you got a problem with it then fuck, what up
It be ashes to ashes, dust to dust
Got your bitch riding everything but the bus
She let me put it everywhere but the butt
I always tell the bitch don't talk so much
She said "Who I'm hidin' from?"
What the fuck, for what?

Niggas say they fuck with you, I can't tell
500, 000 dollar Chevelle
I got bricks and birds for retail
I got 100, 000 worth of belts
These bitches and these niggas know that they can't play around here
I call the spot elementary 'cause I keep a K around here
All my Hatians if you play they make you grady baby
I might shoot you in your head and that is no more thinking
Pussy boy I'll leave you dead and call it dead-ication
I put Act inside my drink, they call it medication

Man that leanin so bad, I can't even do a push up for a million
(Lean, lean, lean, lean, lean)
Catch a nigga baby mama
Make her give me nothing but ceiling (head)
Never had time to wrap and cap
And doubt the trap my ice a lamp
I can't adapt, I'd rather the slap
I read the pop, it's capped in now
His mom is out, his dad, his cat
2004 I was screaming everything, Gucci no Big Cat
And we was scannin' the ride with them cases of all these big racks
Fuck a officer, Akon what it do bruh
Keep these fuckin' hoes off for you
When you get some new money turn up uh
You gon' wish you would've or could've
Sit down and get rich like a booker
Might drop the top up off it
If I don't get into the helicopter
Feeling like I'm on a blue dolphin
Nigga roundin' round with like hella choppers
Every time I need new surgery I gon call her my head doctor
5 more thousands 'cause she ain't got no head problems
Yeah, all my niggas they be bleedin' niggas
They ain't gon' never cheat a nigga
Pop her while I'm in the latest season, nigga
I'm a bag her every time I see her, nigga
Fishing hoes with my hook
Pockets all swollen, no book
Glasses on, she don't know how I look
Since I'm on how the fuck do I look?
You ain't got no milli, you can't tell me how I look
I'm a big old Blood over here

Niggas say they fuck with you, I can't tell
500, 000 dollar Chevelle
I got bricks and birds for retail
I got 100, 000 worth of belts
These bitches and these niggas know that they can't play around here
I call the spot elementary 'cause I keep a K around here
All my Hatians if you play they make you grady baby
I might shoot you in your head and that is no more thinking
Pussy boy I'll leave you dead and call it dead-ication
I put Act inside my drink, they call it medication

You ain't read the paper, you ain't seen the news
Got a team of goons bout action
Never started, but I finish it so nasty
Ask em, they know 'bout me
I'm so Keyshia with the 9, rock a bye baby
So smooth, so fly baby, rock a bye baby
Let me turn up now
4 shows a week, 100 thousand a piece
We getting bread now
Mama don't worry bout nothin'
You can kick up your legs now
I ain't lying, got hitters on top of hitters
Got hitters on top of hitters
Rest in peace to my nigga Lil Bleek
I miss you, I miss you nigga
Just tryna live and have a lil fun nigga
Nephew just came home, half a million dollar bond nigga
I got fans that bust yo ass, you talk bout Boosie baby
Got off my ass, went got that bag and Boosie made it
Hey daddy made it

Niggas say they fuck with you, I can't tell
500, 000 dollar Chevelle
I got bricks and birds for retail
I got 100, 000 worth of belts
These bitches and these niggas know that they can't play around here
I call the spot elementary 'cause I keep a K around here
All my Hatians if you play they make you grady baby
I might shoot you in your head and that is no more thinking
Pussy boy I'll leave you dead and call it dead-ication
I put Act inside my drink, they call it medication


I can see that bullshit from a mile away
You can stack my money 'bout a mile away
I got three white bitches like it's powder day
Mink coat with the rolls like a Shar Pei
And all my bitches sexy, call them Barbies
She lookin' back like I'm flexin', baby no way
And lately, I been on that D'usse, yee

Got me a check, I got a check
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh, sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, oh, got a check (yeah, yeah-yeah!)

Money on my mind, I got money on my brain
Money in my pants, I got money I call change
20, 50, 100, 500 millions made
Big hunna Thugga, screamin' free that Gucci Mane

If I need some racks, I'mma flip me some packs
I talk like I want and she don't say nothin' back
If cops pull up, I put that crack in my crack
Or I put that brack in my brack
Call little shawty, made her fuck on my brodie
If you don't owe me, bitch, still act like you owe me
I promise I won't ever quit, bitch I'm Kobe
And I whip that white, you can snow me
Stoner Young Thugger
I whip it, that bitch, yeah, she know me Young Thugger
Yeah, she shinin' like butter
The bitch from Chicago, I call her young Cutler
Leave it to Beaver
I pull up in Bentleys with London, they all want to meet him
Yeah, they all wanna greet him
They pull down they pants and they all wanna eat him, uh
No, they won't tease on that dick
They won't read on that dick, they won't leash on that dick
Don't Felicia that dick, Mamacita that dick
They gon' snitch on that dick
And she screamin' loud, she can't secret that dick
Mama a beast on that dick
If she bad, I'ma gon' Four Season that bitch
Eat that lil bitch, I'mma feast that lil bitch, mm

I got me a check, I got a check
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh, sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, oh, got a check (yeah, yeah-yeah!)

Money on my mind, I got money on my brain
Money in my pants, I got money I call change
20, 50, 100, 500 millions made
Big hunna Thugga, screamin' free that Gucci Mane

Bitch I'm a Migo, I play with kilo
When I put ice on, I am Sub-Zero
All of my niggas, they hard, call 'em beetles
Niggas was fake so I kept me a Ruger in Regals
Droppin' the top on the Bentley
I'm with the Birdman, yeah the eagle
Geeked out my mind, man I'm tripping out
I don't know none of these people
Make my little shawty go get me a four and bring back me a liter
Yes, I got threats, I'm not worried bout that
They know they can get wet and I swear I done

Got me a check, I got a check
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh, sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, I got a check (sheesh)
Yeah, I done got me a check, oh, got a check (yeah, yeah-yeah!)

Yeah I'm like, baby baby baby, I need racks
Baby baby, baby baby baby, I need racks
Baby baby, baby baby baby, I want racks
Baby baby, baby baby baby, I need racks, hey!


Pussy niggas actin' like they never had shit
All these bitches actin' like they never had shit
I got a bad bitch, she said she always had shit
All these flawless diamonds, yeah they're lookin' glassy
Catch that nigga slippin', I'm a do 'em nasty
Check out my attire, this expensive fabric
We can wrestle just like Randy Savage
My jewelry as cold as an attic
The kush that I smoke'll blow your lungs out
I'm a walk in and clutch it like it's a war house
All your bitches that's busted, they live in your house
What goes up goes down, my nigga, north south
I done ran up them M's without a tour now
She done stepped up her game, Christian couture now
These niggas thought that they knew it but they don't know it now
I swear to God they're pursuin' at all my shows now

Hopped out my bed and hopped right in a foreign
Bitch don't get close, this a mothafuckin' warning
Suck that dick good, I'm the mothafuckin' warden
She runnin' away from my weed like it farted
She don't wanna swallow so I put it on her neck
I beat that pussy up, she loud as a parade
I got 1 million but only 10 in the bank
I taste a sample, I only buy if it's dank
I cook fishscale, and sang to her at the same time like Tank
I was born in '91, 23 with a whole lotta stain
5 star mothafucka
Baby can you feel my pain?
All my diamonds need to be drained
I got a gangsta bitch that's gon' bang
And I got racks up, I can't complain
And all my dogs, they're dirty, check for mange
And all I gotta do is reserve your brains
And I'm a gangsta, my nuts, they gone hang
Who said you was straight? Boy you need to be retained

Pussy niggas actin' like they never had shit
All these bitches actin' like they never had shit
I got a bad bitch, she said she always had shit
All these flawless diamonds, yeah they're lookin' glassy
Catch that nigga slippin', I'm a do 'em nasty
Check out my attire, this expensive fabric
We can wrestle just like Randy Savage
My jewelry as cold as an attic
The kush that I smoke'll blow your lungs out
I'm a walk in and clutch it like it's a war house
All your bitches that's busted, they live in your house
What goes up goes down, my nigga, north south
I done ran up them M's without a tour now
She done stepped up her game, Christian couture now
These niggas thought that they knew it but they don't know it now
I swear to God they're pursuin' at all my shows now

Took the Rollie off, put the Breitling back on
Walk in the room and I cut the lights on
Why you spending like that? 'Cause I ain't ever had shit
This that real nigga PaperWrap, YSL shit
Never loved a bitch but I love money
In the church payin' my tithes with drug money
Went and got a new plug, got mama a new house
And a couple new coupes, that's how a young nigga live
Couple bitches, good weed that how a nigga chill
Top floor, penthouse, still crackin' seals
Them Houston niggas be like, "That young nigga trill"
Them New York niggas say that young nigga ill
My mama always told me dress to kill
My uncle always told me pack the steel
That nigga Thugger, that's my mothafuckin' brotha
From a motherfuckin' other, I'm a show you how to make magic
The fuck is you mad at?
Got your bitch dancin' all in my spot with no panties
I said, "Bitch where your mothafuckin' man at?
Fuck that, where your friends at?" Dammit
Sold 50 p's, hold it, have to bag it
That little bitch you lovin' on, I been had it
Pull up in a new drop, that thang nasty
Mama call all my big booty bitches trashy

Pussy niggas actin' like they never had shit
All these bitches actin' like they never had shit
I got a bad bitch, she said she always had shit
All these flawless diamonds, yeah they're lookin' glassy
Catch that nigga slippin', I'm a do 'em nasty
Check out my attire, this expensive fabric
We can wrestle just like Randy Savage
My jewelry as cold as an attic
The kush that I smoke'll blow your lungs out
I'm a walk in and clutch it like it's a war house
All your bitches that's busted, they live in your house
What goes up goes down, my nigga, north south
I done ran up them M's without a tour now
She done stepped up her game, Christian couture now
These niggas thought that they knew it but they don't know it now
I swear to God they're pursuin' at all my shows now


A young nigga's life is a dream
We ain't lettin' no hoes get between
When my diamonds speak, they say "bling"
Yellow diamonds, no crime scene
This that rich shit, I eat fish and grits
Catch me boolin' with my dogs, just like Michael Vick
I don't give no damn if they throw it off, I won't fuckin' miss
Bitch I'm so up, no Sleepy Brown, wouldn't talk to him 'bout shit
Ya dig?

I want you to talk to the hand while I talk to bands
I might go on and stop playin' and take over the land
My money long as school buses, ain't talkin' no Xans
Sit still, I'm cool coming
Pull up and then spray it
50 dub, know I'm sayin'?
100 bloods in my fam
100 bloods, them not fans
Fuck the beach, I got sand
PS3, I'm not playin'
Go gentle on my lil' man
She wanna stay where I'm stayin'
I'm booted up, I could land
My car is fast, I should drag
Versace white, Ku Klux Klan
Don't care if he's Crip, he still fam
No I ain't? Bitch, I am
But when I do I might need help up
And I wanna be like Mike and I ain't talkin' Phelps, bruh

A young nigga's life is a dream
We ain't lettin' no hoes get between
When my diamonds speak, they say "bling"
Yellow diamonds, no crime scene
This that rich shit, I eat fish and grits
Catch me boolin' with my dogs, just like Michael Vick
I don't give no damn if they throw it off, I won't fuckin' miss
Bitch I'm so up, no Sleepy Brown, wouldn't talk to him 'bout shit
Ya dig?

Hey how you doin'? I'm Yak Gotti, I got bodies on bodies
I'm with Thugger, that's my woadie, yeah my round, that's my compadre
And we solid, oh so solid, if I get caught I won't say nothin'
YSL, we be mobbin', I'm forreal, this beat knockin'
Trigger, boy I got you, Rico, boy I got you
I'm livin' out my dreams, broke is not an option
Yeah I'm livin' out my dreams, broke is not an option

A young nigga's life is a dream
We ain't lettin' no hoes get between
When my diamonds speak, they say "bling"
Yellow diamonds, no crime scene
This that rich shit, I eat fish and grits
Catch me boolin' with my dogs, just like Michael Vick
I don't give no damn if they throw it off, I won't fuckin' miss
Bitch I'm so up, no Sleepy Brown, wouldn't talk to him 'bout shit
Ya dig?


Halftime, half a perc and half a zan make it halftime
Half a pint, pour up an eight, my nigga halftime
Tryna rob that stick turn his body in halftime (Yeah)

Hit the streets and tear this bitch up like I'm Willie B
No Tennessee but the chain on my neck is a T
No Memphis Bleek, bitch I own the Roc not Jay Z, ya dig?
War Ready like Tracy T, ya dig?
Racks on racks on racks just might pull up in my Spider
All my diamonds black you can motherfuckin' knight 'em
All these pussy niggas whack, I'm a murk 'em every night'll
Pull up screamin' blat, got my motor out a Viper
Got 100 mil flat like my motherfuckin' idol
I might eat it, I might lick it, but I swear I'll never bite 'em
I swear every time I dress myself it go motherfuckin' viral
They say niggas stealin' swag, bring my shit back like recycles
I'm a ask her for some head
I don't know that ho, I act like she dead
Insurance on my money like a wreck
Every time I see her, she lick the cleavage
Fuck her on a $10, 000 bed
I could never love her, fuck her
And suck my dick like Beavis no Butthead
Cocaine white like Justin Bieber bitch
I might show the racks and tease the bitch
I might want it but I don't need the bitch
I been flooded out my Jesus bitch
I want your pizza, Little Caesar's bitch
Ninth Ward, I buy my diesel bitch
I don't wanna talk and see a snitch
No teacher, we chalkin' shit
I pass the school, I pass by all the stallions
I just want that neck like a giraffe
I like fish in water, I'm a bear
175, I shave it like it's Nair
Lay out, watch the kids like a daycare
I don't play games, no I'm not the fair
I got Hot Wheels like a motherfuckin' chariot
Chanel Vintage but this shit is real

Hey let's have a good time!
Hey let's a have a very good time!

I done figured this shit out
If you think you gone bite on my swag it's a virus
I don my swag and I pull up on bitches dressed in all white like Miley Cyrus
No, I'm not gay, I fuck bitches on bitches
I whip out she suck on my private (Suck it!)
Lil nigga play, I'm a catch him down bad and then stick 'em fold 'em like a wallet
I swear to God there's only one of me and these bitches 3D like a trolley
I'm walkin' through it like tons of the ones and these bitches grabbin' on my phallus
Fuck nigga try me I swear to God lil whodie done pull up and pop at his noggin
Bitch I got water I look like I'm fresh from Hawaii
Having the time of my motherfuckin' life
I'm gonna buy everything I want, I can't think twice
You can turn the icetray off baby I'm havin' ice
As long as I live I never want a wife

Hey let's have a good time!
Hey let's a have a very good time!


Nigga have you ever dreamed?
I was the man and you a thing
One and two
Anytime I get mad, I can't get back to you
God damn, who the hell let rats in the house?
King of lions, who let these cats rattin' out of the house?
Houston, Texas when I'm on land, I lean back like a couch
I'm not playin', I want it bad, call shots like a spouse
We roll that kushy up, we eat that pussy though
Suck it till you're throwin' up, my Phantom grey, no hound
I lost a Lear, no bucks, still waitin' on that Bentley truck
Stop playin', look bitty boy, you're a duck
He ain't YSL, nigga, he ain't in the hut
I might stop buy and let that little bitch lush
I pull up and chop at your cousin, your bus
Little nigga, you know what it was
You know what it is, you know what it does
I'm makin' your old lady shake it
She suckin' too slow, I'm impatient
My diamonds so wet like they bathin'
Don't know where to go, I'm amazin'

What's amazin'? I don't know
What's amazin'? I don't know
What's amazin'? I don't know
What's amazin'? (Amazing is a grateful thing)
I might accept your apology
I mean you throw L's up if you ain't followin'
I am a beast, your life I'll be swallowin'
And I've been drinkin', I need to bottle this

Man I'm so tired of these niggas man
I am so tired of these bitches
I'm so magnificent, studio workin'
I'm wearin' a top like I'm pimpin'
Your bitch want my milk
I'm sittin' at the top lookin' down at these wimps
These hoes just roll me a blunt
And you know that they stuffy, they cannot be empty
I never had cutlass and donks
I based up my bankroll then based out my trunk
I might fuck that lil bitch in the mornin'
I might put her out and call Tyrone
Snoop Dogg, I might go ahead and bone
I'm big ballin', bitch put me inside the dome
I'm wearin' Maison Margiela (the tight way)
I'm wearin' Maison Margiela (the right way)
I'm wearin' Maison Margiela (the scary sight way)
I'm wearin' Maison Margiela (the goodnight way)
Take some sand to the beach
Party with a couple foreign freaks
Kim K lookin' ho, Yeezy
Florida livin' nigga, Pork N Beans

Yeah, and I'mma ride this bitch tonight
And I just might ride this bitch tonight
Pork N Beans where you at baby?
Pork N Beans where you at baby?

Brown sugar on that bitch
Pull up with a ho and she know I'm ready to
Bust her, pay her, leave her, fuck her
I don't wait up, let me check my mail
He broke, he servin' his squad with a scale
I make it rain, I hope all is well
I pull off deep like what in the hell?
Ho give on my niggas some bails
Wait I'mma lay down 'fore I'll tell
Pull up in old school Chevelles
I don't save pictures, they might get revealed
How many times have I asked are you well?
How many times have I popped a perc pill?
How many homies at home on the bail?
How many times have I told you you shell?
How many meals have I ate until I burp?
Dropping the top on the Mulsanne ain't no hot top on merchs
Hey I worked so hard to get out that dirt
Hey I was thinking this is not that work


I'm gon' beat that pussy up just like a champion
I'm a beast inside these streets like a barbarian
Told my baby next February we're married
We laughin' at these pussy boys, they're so hilarious
I might get him knocked off, pull some spaghetti strings
I might get him knocked off for a double sealed pint of lean
I might get him knocked off while I pull a bank scheme
I might get him knocked off for just tryna join the team

Yeah, we roll these bitches like they centipedes
We get this money, flip some hundreds then we blow some Gs
I gave her life and then I showed her Bs
We fucked the world but now we overseas
Inside of the car, we stashed a hundred bricks
We put it down and hit the town, we 'bout the money trips
Wait, the ice is rollin' 'cause we're rollin', bitch
Flakes, the dope is colda 'cause we're polar, bitch
I answer the call and put her right beside me
Two, we 'bout that woop like them brand new Spyders
Keep your mouth closed, boy, 'cause we're aim and fire
I just might one night her, show love and wife her
I'm bangin' green like the lizard in Geico
I pull up and wet you, burn your top like Michael
I got bullets bigger than fingers in rifles
It's big Bs with a hundred Gs in each one of my pockets

I'm gon' beat that pussy up just like a champion
I'm a beast inside these streets like a barbarian
Told my baby next February we're married
We laughin' at these pussy boys, they're so hilarious
I might get him knocked off, pull some spaghetti strings
I might get him knocked off for a double sealed pint of lean
I might get him knocked off while I pull a bank scheme
I might get him knocked off for just tryna join the team

I'm not gon' pass, I'ma smash 'em
She want that nut so I blast her
My Bentley grey like a pastor
Whippin' that snow, no Alaska
Good head, she got her masters
Shawty a long way from dumb
Your money flat like a plasma
Good kush, smoke is the bomb
I drink that Act while you be drinkin' red
I don't fall in love, I run over it instead
Hey, babe, bobble, that big ol' head
I'm like, "lil baby, I don't know your kid"
I keep my pistol I'll give you the lead
They 3 deep I call 'em Ed, Edd and Eddy
Baby take a picture, that photo cred
She make me lean back like a sofa bed

I'm gon' beat that pussy up just like a champion
I'm a beast inside these streets like a barbarian
Told my baby next February we're married
We laughin' at these pussy boys, they're so hilarious
I might get him knocked off, pull some spaghetti strings
I might get him knocked off for a double sealed pint of lean
I might get him knocked off while I pull a bank scheme
I might get him knocked off for just tryna join the team


Uh OD'ing on drugs
Ay bruh bring me a lighter
Somebody, please

I think I'm OD'ing on drugs
Nigga done started a fight inside the club
Never switched up on my brew I'm not a dub
I got a foreign car sittin' on some dubs
Baby said she gon' help me out with my problems
I'm still screaming fuck the crime stoppers
Yes I'll hit you up, go do a dub for my partner
Yaah, riding in the back just like a scrub for my partner
Knuck if you buck for my partner
Yeah I show love for my partner
I'mma fuck a ho when I leave the club just for my partner
I'mma pull off and take off on my plug that's for my partner
I can live life on a boat like Nautica with my partner
That's my motherfuckin' partner in crime, baby
And you know I'm never stoppin' the time lil baby
And you know it's not a doubt in my mind lil baby
And you know I'm doin' it for the slimes baby

Thugga! I'm a big B (east) yeah wildebeast
You can't see me, I'm tired of these streets
I will remain an OG when deceased
R.I.P. Mike Brown, fuck the Cops
Screamin' R.I.P Bennie shootin' up a block
No clock lil nigga sit back and watch
Me move, All of these chickens lil nigga, no Popeye's
When my palm go to itchin' boy I get missin'
Whippin' up fake dope in Big Duck's kitchen
I swear to god I hurt to whip it (yaah)
Dirty Cup for a nigga sippin' (whoa)
When I get through with that 4 a nigga trippin', whoa
I changed my shoes to Givenchy's they no trippin' no
I'm a young rich nigga flip up flippin', whoa
S.L.I.M.E. yeah, I wipe your nose
Wipe it, wipe it, wipe it
I get that pussy and I just demolish, -molish, -molish
Divide it, all in they mouth no trident
No baby, but I wipe it! I kiss it and good night it
I make love and I fight it
Precise and yes it's righteous
My luck and how and why can't I fuck it all night got sticks
And I'm never scared, never frightened
Keep 'em all out your business they just here because of your riches
You keep these 1s flyin no biscuit
This money I'm gettin', it got me

I think I'm OD'ing on drugs
Nigga done started a fight inside the club
Never switched up on my brew I'm not a dub
I got a foreign car sittin' on some dubs
Baby said she gon' help me out with my problems
I'm still screaming fuck the crime stoppers
Yes I'll hit you up, go do a dub for my partner
Yaah, riding in the back just like a scrub for my partner
Knuck if you buck for my partner
Yeah I show love for my partner
I'mma fuck a ho when I leave the club just for my partner
I'mma pull off and take off on my plug that's for my partner
I can live life on a boat like Nautica with my partner
That's my motherfuckin' partner in crime, baby
And you know I'm never stoppin' the time lil baby
And you know it's not a doubt in my mind lil baby
And you know I'm doin' it for the slimes baby

Dollywhite yeah I'm doin' it for you Slime
Dora I do it for you Slime
Big Duck I do it for you Slime
Yeah
Jeff I do it for you Slime
Junior I do it for you, Keisha I do it for you, Bennie I do it for you, Emsley I do it for you, Sheen I do it for you, Gregory I do it for you
Kat I do it for you, Unfunk I do it for you, I survive in a zoo
I take of my kids, no matter what else I do
Rocko I do, I do
Yeah and that's to God that it's true
My niggas they was some clothes bandits
Now they dealin' with bad bitches and they know they have it
And they show they have it, bitch we photograph it
I might put mud on my trump and hop out clean and damp it
Free my lil brother Bean you know a savage
Yeah, but he don't wrestle, no Randy
Pussy clean she don't need panties
I see right through that bitch like she panoramic
Yeah I treat that beef just like fuckin' Manwich
I'm - I'm screamin' 30 fuck a blue jean bandit
We don't care about no jeans we just want that cash in
So we stole the truck and smashed it, 'cause it's tragic when I'm

I think I'm OD'ing on drugs
Nigga done started a fight inside the club
Never switched up on my brew I'm not a dub
I got a foreign car sittin' on some dubs
Baby said she gon' help me out with my problems
I'm still screaming fuck the crime stoppers
Yes I'll hit you up, go do a dub for my partner
Yaah, riding in the back just like a scrub for my partner
Knuck if you buck for my partner
Yeah I show love for my partner
I'mma fuck a ho when I leave the club just for my partner
I'mma pull off and take off on my plug that's for my partner
I can live life on a boat like Nautica with my partner
That's my motherfuckin' partner in crime, baby
And you know I'm never stoppin' the time lil baby
And you know it's not a doubt in my mind lil baby
And you know I'm doin' it for the slimes baby


Yeah
Thugger Thugger
Got my broadie London in this mothafucker man
I'm tellin' ya this beat hard as... this one hard as fuck, listen bro
I go up up up and away
And I got old hundreds, they wrinkled like a Shar Pei
Plus I'm the realest nigga inside the A

And them boys in Atlanta they don't play yeah
And them boys from Atlanta tote them K's yeah
And them boys from Atlanta got bananas for these monkeys nigga
I got plenty ammo for your bumblin' nigga
Ammo for these pussy mothafuckas
Run up I swear to god I want tears from your mother
Fuck nigga tripping, I'll get prison and fuck your father
Imma tell 'em one time, ain't going farther
I'm doing numbers

I got bands in the bando and I'm beating David Banner
And I'm smoking on cabana, leanin', movin slow as grandma
Motor runnin', spent them commas, now it's thunder
Count a hundred want a hundred more, that's hunger
Yeah baby, Thugger Thugger hungry, yes I'm hungry
Young Thugger got the munchies
All my diamonds come in yellow like a Funyun
Yeah all my gold made 'em sick and they can vomit
Yeah-yeah... pussy nigga know they can vomit
I'm growing green, me and Chi-Chi, no pet
I'm chasing dreams, free Meek Milly

And them boys in Atlanta they don't play yeah
And them boys from Atlanta tote them K's yeah
And them boys from Atlanta got bananas for these monkeys nigga
I got plenty ammo for your bumblin' nigga
Ammo for these pussy mothafuckas
Run up I swear to god I want tears from your mother
Fuck nigga tripping, I'll get prison and fuck your father
Imma tell 'em one time, ain't going farther
I'm doing numbers

I'mma tell 'em one time
I can read your mind
Pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, then start ridin'
Brand new 24's, bitch on climb
You's a busta, mothafucka rhymes
No sticky fingers, no porcupine
Genius I'll chase the day
Wait, let me pick up his remains
Hey, them gators get their prey
Hold up, hold up, wait

And them boys in Atlanta they don't play yeah
And them boys from Atlanta tote them K's yeah
And them boys from Atlanta got bananas for these monkeys nigga
I got plenty ammo for your bumblin' nigga
Ammo for these pussy mothafuckas
Run up I swear to god I want tears from your mother
Fuck nigga tripping, I'll get prison and fuck your father
Imma tell 'em one time, ain't going farther
I'm doing numbers


Ever gon see, yeah, I promise!
Ever gon see, yeah, I promise!
Aye man get your mutherfuckin hands away from my syrup man
Livin' life bro, I'm happy

Baby you know that I might be the realest lil nigga you ever gone see
Baby you know that I might be trillest lil nigga that you wanna be
Baby you know that I might be the richest lil nigga you ever could treat
And you know that I might just scoop that lil bitch up off of her feet
All of these niggas they know that they fallin' and everyone wanna be me
All of these bitches don't wanna be cheated on but all these bitches wan' cheat
All of these bitches wanna be the new wifey but all of these bitches be cheatin'
All of these rappers I swear they watering down and I'm the chlorine

Feed me, feed me
These pussy niggas tighter than a wedgie, weegee
I live life like a sniper, they can't see me, see me
Her heart like an old diaper, I can't leave it, leave it
I'm drinkin' on this motherfuckin' mud
Okay my fuckin' back pocket is fat like a butt
I swear I'mma blood, I can never be your 'cause
You can roger that like my motherfuckin' buzz (Losie!)
(Mumbling)
I'll bippoty-bop, then stick it and fade
I keep some coke and the rocks on me everyday
I got a bitch with a yacht missin' in the bay
Come here tempt me if you wan' go on a date
I'll make bail within' the first 48
I'll give her the stick
She gone get a clip, bigger than a porn star dick
And I need new casting, for a porn star clip

Baby you know that I might be the realest lil nigga you ever gone see
Baby you know that I might be trillest lil nigga that you wanna be
Baby you know that I might be the richest lil nigga you ever could treat
And you know that I might just scoop that lil bitch up off of her feet
All of these niggas they know that they fallin' and everyone wanna be me
All of these bitches don't wanna be cheated on but all these bitches wan' cheat
All of these bitches wanna be the new wifey but all of these bitches be cheatin'
All of these rappers I swear they watering down and I'm the chlorine

That's called breathin', that's how you let that bitch breathe fool

Okay you know all my diamonds got no flaws
Momma move to 85 north, not 85 south
I think these hoes piranhas, excluding my baby momma
I take care my daddy momma by pullin' up with them bundles
If I ain't treat you good little baby just know it's karma
You did my nigga wrong, I know it, it was last summer
Lyin' to me, tellin' me I'm the bomb like Osama
I wish I could spend 50 bands on tour for grandmama
I'll crack that nigga head with a bottle
I could never call, not a fed, not a cop
Niggas sit on the bench and I said do y'all
YSL scream "fuck the rest" 'cause we got right now
Niggas asked me "Am I sure?", and the Bentley said "Yeah"
That little bitch ask for a purse and you know I said "Yeah"
She gone act just like a clerk when them feds in there
She might act like she know Bird when them players in there

Baby you know that I might be the realest lil nigga you ever gone see
Baby you know that I might be trillest lil nigga that you wanna be
Baby you know that I might be the richest lil nigga you ever could treat
And you know that I might just scoop that lil bitch up off of her feet
All of these niggas they know that they fallin' and everyone wanna be me
All of these bitches don't wanna be cheated on but all these bitches wan' cheat
All of these bitches wanna be the new wifey but all of these bitches be cheatin'
All of these rappers I swear they watering down and I'm the chlorine

Yeah I'm bout to clean some motherfuckers, fool
I got on flue but you know I'm still drippin' you know what I'm sayin'


Yamu yamula Babe (Yamu yamula Babe)
Rich Gang (We got landing on the track)

Boolin' at the basketball game
Dressed in Balmain (Fresh)
Dropped a hundred on the whole thing
Inside cost a whole thing
And I'm a, give you my all, first my whole name
I'm in her mouth just like Colgate
I'm really feelin' super light, aye
Hate me
Like a hate ladies man, like bait
Hop inside a Bentley with a red paper plate
Every time they hate I throw them bands like a bouquet
I ain't Ray J but you can be my Kim K
Feelin' like the flippin' yellow green on like a cape
I don't ever believe what Lil Kim say
Ballin' how you feel, you can jump in my league
Running to my head like a deal in this league
Man, everywhere she go, she ballin'
Yeah she got xans, she like, "Where Tar at?"
She don't gangbang, she say she bang gangs
And she'll fight, might knock 'em out the ring
Had a coke brick, she'll whip it like a whip

I just wanna nut, she say that is easy like a baker
She just want a nigga, I don't serve but I love maple
And that's why she gon' watch me like cable

Take kare of her
If I don't do nothin' in the world, swear to God I'm takin' kare of her

Take kare of lil mama, take kare of baby mama
Take kare of her
Take kare of her, take kare of her
Take kare of her

On a million, goin' to meet a billion
Bring the Bentley, you can keep the ceiling
Take a trip to Peru, baby suck my dog like Snoop
Blood gang, big ups so woo
Dinosaur bank roll, woo woo
H&amp;M ballin', ball a hundred ten
Throw my boy 6, bim bim
Baby keep that pussy
Baby keep that pussy clean, trill
Bought a castle with my last deal
Boy don't talk about no fad deal
Lil nigga you laaaaaaaaame, okay
I'm a put the pedal to the race
I'm a pull the pedal, not the brake
Ice inside my ring, you can skate

Yeah this shit cold like a case

That a nigga went and snitched on him with
All these mothafuckin' bitch
I'm the shit, Hell I'm the shit
I'm a build a hole for a snitch, not a ditch
Shit

They be hatin' on my girl, though
And they wish they was the bitch they're hatin'
Salutations to my old hoes
And thank you for your participation
No chasin' from a girl though
She go harder than me on, okay
Gettin' wasted with my girl
Then we 69 till we need ventilation
You don't know about it
Gotta open new accounts cause the others overcrowded
Gotta open up the stores when they're closed when we shoppin'
For my girl, wear the clothes that ain't nobody rockin'
She so bad, I don't know what to do with her
I know just what to do in her
Homies hit me up, they said they're goin' out tonight
I said I'm with my girl, tonight I can't fuck with you niggas
I'm a take kare of her

(Rich Gang)
Don't get scare Now Niggaz

Yeeh take kare
Take kare
Take kare


Got a Rarri with the engine in the back
Every neighbor know a nigga servin' crack
Chasing cheese, but I can not be a rat
Screamin' free Gucci Mane, no Mack
I just finished doin' some business with the hat back
I'mma take a nigga head like a snatch back
I'mma hit her with this wood, no mouse trap
Take a five hour rest, ball it cat nap

Treat her like a Bentley, take the top up off that bitch
I got hoes drinkin' syrup like a waffle on that dick
I made all my pockets grow like Pinocchio, lil bitch
Either way, money'll grow, just know I'm tryna get rich
Baby, I wanna cashout on you in it for my pride
Baby, I bought that Audi and I gave it to my mother
These niggas, they cowards, they won't even kill each other
Even though I got rhymes, I bust shit just like a bubble
Hey I ran up my racks and I'm killin' 'em by the day
Treat her like she got tatted, she comin' with all that head
Not a big fan of acne, but she like it in her face
I'm in the West Coast bangin' like I'm in the A

Got a Rarri with the engine in the back
Every neighbor know a nigga servin' crack
Chasing cheese, but I can not be a rat
Screamin' free Gucci Mane, no Mack
I just finished doin' business with the hat back
I'mma take a nigga head like a snatch back
I'mma hit her with this wood, no mouse trap
Take a five hour rest, ball it cat nap

I just copped the coupe, it came with twin turbo
Diamonds 'round my neck, they singin' like they Kirko
Thugger got me swung, got drinkin' all this purple
And I got 'em billionaires in my circle
So you know I'm bangin' back up in the Rarri
I got old money like when I played Atari
Counted me a million on my DVD
Coca, cocaina, I got recipes
Really makin' juggs, I was servin'
Cash Money, nigga, I know Birdman
I just want the cheddar, I just want the pesos
Rich Gang, YSL, came up off that yayo

Got a Rarri with the engine in the back
Every neighbor know a nigga servin' crack
Chasing cheese, but I can not be a rat
Screamin' free Gucci Mane, no Mack
I just finished doin' business with the hat back
I'mma take a nigga head like a snatch back
I'mma hit her with this wood, no mouse trap
Take a five hour rest, ball it cat nap


I'm a fuckin' stunna
Ass big, Hummer
Birds, Alge Crumpler
Big B, stung her bzzzzz
Slime, anaconda
I became a problem
OG kush, fungus
Know me well, wonder
Pull up on a pussy nigga in a second
Young Thugga thuggin', pussy, Makaveli
Left pocket lettuce, right pocket relish
17-5, baby, sell it, Thugga!
Hop inside the coupe and drop the roof
'Cause I'm the mothafuckin' man, you dig?
Mama give me head, nut on her brain
And then I bought the bitch a brand new wig
I'ma pour up mud and now I'm livin' like a pig
Signed so many deals I think I got the best sig
I can write, I can write
Hear no evil, I see no evil
I ain't kin to Wayne
But I called the bitch and now she my mamacita
Big diamonds on me, mothafuckas lookin' like pimples
Don't let the fish eye fool you, bitch this a peephole
Play with my head, I'll bust your watermelon
Pink, I'm movin' slower than a caterpillar
I got a hundred thousand hoes, tryna get a million
I got a hundred thousand coupes and I don't keep the ceiling
I'm almost at the finish and you niggas still beginning
I got more money than Martin so I pour up more Remy
I just got back from Jimmy Fallon, me and T.I.P. sippin'
Four fours, tryna rob, oh no
I'm a fuckin' stunna
Ass big, Hummer
Birds, Alge Crumpler
Big B, stung her
Slime, anaconda
I became a problem
Roll OG kush, fungus
Know me well, wonder
Pull up on a pussy nigga in a second
Young Thugga thuggin', pussy, Makaveli
Left pocket lettuce, right pocket relish
17-5, baby, sell it
17-5, all my niggas, they gon' ride
Complete homicide, I'm a earthling in disguise
With a foreign body, diamonds wet with no wires
Screw that bitch with no pliers
No charger, pussy, die
Livin' like a mob boss, pussy nigga no I won't play
Nigga can't stand in front of me
I got my ice on, bitch ain't nothin' fugazi
Vintage swag, nigga, no 80s
And I don't speak Creole
But them niggas, they gon' look out every time I'm in Haiti
I got more money than you and you and you and you and you too
I ain't even crippin' but I got a mothafuckin' clue and it's blue
Damn, and I want you to guess, nigga
But if you're wrong, you gon' get the rest, nigga
I'ma put a lot of metal in his chest just like a vest, nigga
I'm a fuckin' stunna
Ass big, Hummer
Birds, Alge Crumpler
Big B, stung her
Slime, anaconda
I became a problem
Rollin' OG kush, fungus
Know me well, wonder
Pull up on a pussy nigga in a second
Young Thugga thuggin', pussy, Makaveli
Left pocket lettuce, right pocket relish
17-5, baby, sell it


We got London on the Track
First you get that money then you get that power
If he tune his nose up, boy he on that powder
Now you walk around with 50 in your trousers
Diamonds boolin' on my chest, no fuckin' blouser
Bitch, I make it rain shower, ya dig that?
They wouldn't know one thing about ya if ya zip that
Hit 'em with that blocka-blocka, nigga get back

Beat that bid an never crack, did that, sheesh!
Before I go without a sack, I swag pack
I spoiled my bitch and now she actin' like a brat
I met Ellis, I know Jimmy, he got racks
Bitch I'm bleedin' like a tat
Roll it, roll it, for me on ya back
Just for show, my diamonds yellow like a taxi
I'm a cat, I'ma take out them pussy rats
Pussy nigga better not look back
Or, or else I'm killin' 'em, hell yeah, that's a fact sheesh
There's blood all on my Timberlands
Make a nigga say "whaat?!"

I swear to God she feelin' 'em

She sucked like eight dicks, I call her Octagon
First you get that money then you get that power
If he tune his nose up, boy he on that powder
Now you walk around with 50 in your trousers
Diamonds boolin' on my chest, no fuckin' blouser
Bitch, I make it rain shower, ya dig that?

They wouldn't know one thing about ya if ya zip that
Hit 'em with that blocka-blocka, nigga get back

Beat that bid an never crack, did that, sheesh!
Bitch, I dig it, I eat ice cream with my chicken
Bitch, I'm rich just like a Simmons, not lil Diggy
If I got legs, bitch you know I'm gonna get it
She got good head, so she welcome to my Bentley
Big Bentley in that big Bentley, Bentley
Hop out with that semi, 'cause I know these nigga hear me
Is you mad bout Instagram on how I keep my pimpin'?
You keep that Ace of Spades, I'm sippin'

I'm a rocket, rocket, I can't stop it, stop it
I'm a GTV, boy, bitch I'm poppin', poppin'
I need coke, need coke like "Where the fuck is papi?"

If you tryna run off, you know we pop ya noggin'
First you get that money then you get that power
If he tune his nose up, boy he on that powder
Now you walk around with 50 in your trousers
Diamonds boolin' on my chest, no fuckin' blouser
Bitch, I make it rain shower, ya dig that?
They wouldn't know one thing about ya if ya zip that
Hit 'em with that blocka-blocka, nigga get back
Beat that bid an never crack, did that, sheesh!


You know we can get away
Because I'm calling your name
You know we can get away
You know we can get away
Because I'm calling your name

I'ma hit it, never pass it
Booty fat like she eat asses
You can't see? You need glasses
They can't see me like masks
I know a way, I know I need it
I won't misread it, specs on when I treat it
House on my face when it's real
I'll share my place when it's real
Promise me that you won't squeal
I am your doctor, your Phil
Suck this dick, peppermint, hey baby
I see you're far... far, baby
Hercules, Hercules
I feast on you, you nurse on me
I love your stones and they phony
I'm drunk on her, she all on me
Hey the slang, girl you the business
I'm hungry, eat her like Denny's
I'm just Hannah Montana
Their jewelry's sunny, yours windy
Every day I see you, I wan' fuck you by the pound
I came to the town, discovered it, lost and found
Baby you know I am the one that you want right now

I need to cuff whenever I beat it up or down

She callin' me Jeffery
I protect her like a seatbelt
Nigga, money stacked up like 3 shelves
Run my older hoes off, keep her feet there
By myself, I'm on the shore, no seashells
I hope I'ma ride that bitch like a V12
Aye baby girl don't meet me there, beat me there
Plus I am a freak like 3 Kels'
Pull on up, baby, pull on up
Gots you wrapped, baby, Toys R Us

I'm livin' that life
Baby I'm important like in Pedialyte

I'ma put that pussy in saran for yah
I'ma pop a Xanny for that ass for yah
I'ma play dead, just like a cask on yah
I'ma bleed red when I go smash on yah
Suck this dick, peppermint, hey baby
I see you're far... far, baby
I'ma check that bitch up and down in the street
Ain't gon' hold my head down when they see me
I'm a lion, I'll fuck it, I'm a beast
But nigga my water blue like a genie
Too much money to go to jail, they can't have a freebie
I bring them racks out the shell, bitch you know they're bleeding
Too crazy, too crazy
Like you could be my baby, lady
Three crazy, three crazy
I just might come for you like the Navy
One crazy, two crazy

New coupe Mercedes
Hey I'm just like this
Too hot, I need a fan, no Tasia

She callin' me Jeffery
I protect her like a seatbelt
Nigga, money stacked up like 3 shelves
Run my older hoes off, keep her feet there
By myself, I'm on the shore, no seashells
I hope I'ma ride that bitch like a V12
Aye baby girl don't meet me there, beat me there
Plus I am a freak like 3 Kels'

Pull on up, baby, pull on up
Gots you wrapped, baby, Toys R Us
I'm livin' that life
Baby I'm important like in Pedialyte

I just drink that lean on me, I promise ain't goin' broke
When I hit the club, them strippers smile, I give 'em hope
I know how it feels to be so broke that you got jokes
I know, I know, I know, I know how to get that paper
I know, I know how it feels to stack racks up like acres
I know, I know how it feels, 2, 000 channel cable
Ali-ani-ani got me lookin' like the mayor
What you be, Thug? I'm a player

And what, Thug? I'm a slayer
And what, Thug? I make bail
And plus? I won't tell
You're a winner, in a Bimmer
And what? And I'm drinkin' 4 ounces and liters

She callin' me Jeffery
I protect her like a seatbelt
Nigga, money stacked up like 3 shelves
Run my older hoes off, keep her feet there
By myself, I'm on the shore, no seashells
I hope I'ma ride that bitch like a V12

Aye baby girl don't meet me there, beat me there
Plus I am a freak like 3 Kels'
Pull on up, baby, pull on up
Gots you wrapped, baby, Toys R Us
I'm livin' that life
Baby I'm important like in Pedialyte
You know we can get away
Because I'm calling your name
You know we can get away
Because I'm calling your name
You know we can get away
Because I'm calling your name


I hear the cry of an angel
I hear the scream of a man
I hear the cry of an angel
I hear the scream of a man
Who will stand strong

I got London on the Track baby
He might go jail for serving this crack baby
Rich the Kid we in the trap baby
But he might be lacking 'cause he'll serve all of these rappers baby
I'm sitting up high, I'm in the nose bleed
I got extendo under my extendo tee
Momma I'm not gon let these niggas merk me
I'll be damned if these Bloods let him hurt me
I think I see some blood my baby hurt me
I swear to God I'm Herby Curby working
Lil mama super wet I call her squirty
Like skeet skeet
That pussy retarded, I
I go the hardest, I

I nutted inside with the carbon, why
Why, why would you do this to me?
It hurts if it don't seems
I'ma block it out just by counting these knots
I'm just kidding, I think not
I'ma hold this weight down even though it's a lot

And I'ma take off on your nigga no astronaut

And I'm the motherfucking man I'm not no boy
And I got a playroom if you wanna see some toys
And I got extendo, look like I got two rods
And I got a 6 plus look like an iPhone

My kids go by uh, Jacob, Qavion, Haydee, Hayden, Amir, Maury, and...

I swear to God I ain't sorry bitch
I got a maid that'll watch 'em in the dark
And I got some sisters that'll watch 'em like a guardian
Plus I got some elders that'll watch 'em like a guard
It don't matter if I leave I know my bros gon do my part, hey hey
Bitch come stumbling in my car
I'll just terminate him then I'll leave him with a scar
I can't be no hater bitch it's gambling when in Vegas
I'd be busting tomatoes if I was ever gated
Bitch I know the business I been nominated lately
I bust in her face so yeah she know that's not my baby
Hey, I'ma cook them cakes no Easy Baker
We got something to get so we need that tow truck stable

Hey, bitches see these stars and get high
Yes I'm living it up, my bed in the sky

Yes I heard you're the king of the rock
But when I hit it like a hit stick I make it shock, yeah
Flip flop paint going down the street
Minks all on my floor now that bitch look just like a sheep
Help me find love, help me find love Stevie I can't see
I'm a snake, you know my testing and plus I'ma beef
I might turn you up if you get right, know I'm a thief
Yeah - no Mama Dee, but
I'm spitting so hard I might just lose my teeth
Tree top, she a lil leaf
Baby bought the Gerby
Feed her lobster, Kirby
I don't trust you no worry
Oops I meant worthy
I know it's kinda hard to get these
Words I'm saying, I'm steady praying, amen
Please forgive me for my sins, please twin
I don't wanna be departed from you, you me and
You know I'm you
Hundred miles an hour you control the coupe
Thank you for giving me these golds no flute
Please make 'em understand that I ain't no fruit
Please make 'em understand I only fuck coochie
Please forgive me for my sins
Please please please forgive me
All I wanna do is win
I don't write so I don't want the pen
I promise I'm in love with my kids
I'm thankful for everything I get
Lord knows that I take care of my kids
I promise I hope it never ends

I hear the cry of an angel
I hear the scream of a man


She slime like the deacon, she slime like the deacon
Yeah, Thugger Thugger baby, yeah
Uh, eh, I don't want to tease it, I really want freak it
I'm Michael, I beat it, I'm keepin' your secret
I got more hoes than Pleasers, the one that's on Bleveland
She pull up and freak it, she pull up and freak it
I hop out the 'Rari, I'm leaving it started
She got just a Harley and a skull just like Hardy
Eh, you play with her garden, she smoke you like Marley
Eh, now she be my darlin', yeah, she be my Barbie
I'm lovin' your patience, turned all in this race
Ooh, long as you don't play, motherfuck what you say
Hey, I'm on the third base and you away (That means I'm home)
Quan said, 'Please have a phone', call it a day
I got my ice out the lake, killed that boy by a mistake
We eatin', where is your plate? Aim at your head or your face?
Hannah Montana, my nigga gon' cook everyday, yeah, they bake
Bitch, I been havin' them bricks and them bells, late
I apologize if I got more money than you and your clan
I apologize if I pull up in that new coupe wrapped in 'Ran
I apologize if I post a picture posted with' some bands
I apologize if I go and grow me some pot in Japan
Where your bitch at? No, not that one
Baby want to touch my milk like she cowin'
Every time you see me, I'm a have thousands
On the island, no dressin'
I won't taste it, you got no man, I hope you a free agent
I'm a big old Blood inside that little ol' nation
Eh, ho, what is your bargain? Bro, what is your bargain?
Eh, I pull up and arson all over your garden
Eh, I'm never gon' call you, I'm always gon' ball you
Eh, my diamonds cost more than whatever I chargin'
Now I'm bleedin', need a band-aid, on a rampage with' 'em AKs
Nigga, jewellery real gold like an Ace of Spades
Higher than a escalator any day
I'm a catch a bitch that fold her like a centipede
But I ain't talkin' 'bout no copper, she got double Ds
These niggas fake-ballin' like a Powerade
Damn, this might be coward day
Yeah, this might be powder day
Sniff, shoot up, boot up (toot up), TMZ, sue us
Even if you had Erykah Ba', you couldn't do us
But I got a whole lot of motherfuckin' guns
Nigga, you can shoot us, hey
And I ain't never been a rat, but I'm livin' ruthless
I show the pussy-bitch bankroll, now she can do us, no
And we the best, every time we come around
Boy, they root for us, true
And everybody hate Chris
But I got them racks up, now they Luda, yeah
Tell baby girl, I only wanna throat, flute us
Five thousand on Yeezys, they think I ain't Jesus
Get my ice out the freezer, it cost a lil' Beamer
She fuckin' my whoadie, yeah, lil'-bitty shorty
She think he adoring cause his pockets on Norbit
Play with me and these bitch-niggas gon' die
All I want is that head and that ain't no lie
Nigga ask if you dizzy, don't say nothin'
These niggas vibe faker than a puppet


She slime like the deacon, she slime like the deacon
Yeah, Thugger Thugger baby, yeah
Uh, eh, I don't want to tease it, I really want freak it
I'm Michael, I beat it, I'm keepin' your secret
I got more hoes than Pleasers, the one that's on Bleveland
She pull up and freak it, she pull up and freak it
I hop out the 'Rari, I'm leaving it started
She got just a Harley and a skull just like Hardy
Eh, you play with her garden, she smoke you like Marley
Eh, now she be my darlin', yeah, she be my Barbie
I'm lovin' your patience, turned all in this race
Ooh, long as you don't play, motherfuck what you say
Hey, I'm on the third base and you away (That means I'm home)
Quan said, 'Please have a phone', call it a day
I got my ice out the lake, killed that boy by a mistake
We eatin', where is your plate? Aim at your head or your face?
Hannah Montana, my nigga gon' cook everyday, yeah, they bake
Bitch, I been havin' them bricks and them bells, late
I apologize if I got more money than you and your clan
I apologize if I pull up in that new coupe wrapped in 'Ran
I apologize if I post a picture posted with' some bands
I apologize if I go and grow me some pot in Japan
Where your bitch at? No, not that one
Baby want to touch my milk like she cowin'
Every time you see me, I'm a have thousands
On the island, no dressin'
I won't taste it, you got no man, I hope you a free agent
I'm a big old Blood inside that little ol' nation
Eh, ho, what is your bargain? Bro, what is your bargain?
Eh, I pull up and arson all over your garden
Eh, I'm never gon' call you, I'm always gon' ball you
Eh, my diamonds cost more than whatever I chargin'
Now I'm bleedin', need a band-aid, on a rampage with' 'em AKs
Nigga, jewellery real gold like an Ace of Spades
Higher than a escalator any day
I'm a catch a bitch that fold her like a centipede
But I ain't talkin' 'bout no copper, she got double Ds
These niggas fake-ballin' like a Powerade
Damn, this might be coward day
Yeah, this might be powder day
Sniff, shoot up, boot up (toot up), TMZ, sue us
Even if you had Erykah Ba', you couldn't do us
But I got a whole lot of motherfuckin' guns
Nigga, you can shoot us, hey
And I ain't never been a rat, but I'm livin' ruthless
I show the pussy-bitch bankroll, now she can do us, no
And we the best, every time we come around
Boy, they root for us, true
And everybody hate Chris
But I got them racks up, now they Luda, yeah
Tell baby girl, I only wanna throat, flute us
Five thousand on Yeezys, they think I ain't Jesus
Get my ice out the freezer, it cost a lil' Beamer
She fuckin' my whoadie, yeah, lil'-bitty shorty
She think he adoring cause his pockets on Norbit
Play with me and these bitch-niggas gon' die
All I want is that head and that ain't no lie
Nigga ask if you dizzy, don't say nothin'
These niggas vibe faker than a puppet


Got me a check and went brazy
I swear I done got me a check and went brazy
All these lil niggas too lazy
They don't want no check then they act like some babies
Homicide Homicide Homicide
Pull up to the block and kill your old lady
I'm traumatized traumatized
This shit right here can't be televised nigga no way
Bro let me control it

Brother let me control it
How can I be from the A when I'm in love with a K?
You can't just jump in the gate slow yo ass down nigga wait
Bitch I got 35 hundred 127 of them on the way
Check my status I'm a fly nigga clip up them fine hoes are waiters
They waiting on Young Thugga
They waiting on my brother
They wait on my mother
They suck me like suckers
I swear I ride them like camels
I ride with bananas
Got animal manners
My spot having cameras
I meant having bameras
Grabbing my cock
I don't give a fuck I'm serving the cops
Liquor smelling like a bird on the block
Thugger pitch a nigga curve with the rock
Unfunk greet him with a lock in the sock
I might rob Jack when he come out the box

Suck it or not

I want that dope up like I'm in the 80s and I done
Got me a check and went brazy
I swear I done got me a check and went brazy
All these lil niggas too lazy
They don't want no check then they act like some babies
Pull up to the block and kill your old lady
I'm traumatized traumatized

This shit right here can't be televised nigga no way
Bro let me control it

Brother let me control it
Man these lil niggas can't be me

I swear these lil niggas can't be me or see me
Man these lil niggas can't be me
They know they can't be me these niggas can't see me

These niggas can't be these niggas can't see me
Wiping his nose
Cleaning his nose clean up my bros
Pour up a four and I got more (Lean)
I do not write
I don't want pens nigga tolls
Yeah if he a lame nigga leave him alone
She's invited to the party

Blow train smoke just for Marley
I done shitted always fuck a toilet
I'm hot so she suck on my sausage (Gumbo)
Hey I sprinkle green on this bitch like garlic

Hey look what they started y'all
Got me a check and went brazy
I swear I done got me a check and went brazy
All these lil niggas too lazy

They don't want no check then they act like some babies
Pull up to the block and kill your old lady
I'm traumatized traumatized
This shit right here can't be televised nigga no way
Bro let me control it

Brother let me control it
Man these lil niggas can't be me
I swear these lil niggas can't be me or see me
Man these lil niggas can't be me
They know they can't be me these niggas can't see me
These niggas can't be these niggas can't see me
Man these lil niggas can't be me
I swear these lil niggas can't be me or see me
Man these lil niggas can't be me
They know they can't be me these niggas can't see me
These niggas can't be these niggas can't see me


Nigga, turn up
It's GuWop
Trap house bunkin'
Trap house mansion
Yeah, right on Flat Shoals Exit, nigga

I'm pourin' fours and shit, I need to just put a duce in
Car cost four-hundred-thou' and I put a roof in
My nigga pot cook it so good he put his shoe in
Nigga, it's a gangsta party, why fuck is you in?

Head bust a microwave, shit, didn't take him two minutes
You know that there's some straps in the club, they let my crew in
I might just do the Michael Vick man and cook it left hand
If you ain't talkin' 'bout buyin' grams then I'm a deaf man

I can make the dope do numbers, the Stacey Augmon

I told my bitch to dye her hair red like Dennis Rodman
If Gucci Mane got so much money then why he robbin'?
We thirty deep, we come from the streets, nigga, we mobbin'

(It's Guwop), again
Thugger and Guwop, again
Chasin' that Guwop, again
That's my lil whoadie, again

We chasin that money baby, again
We fuckin' your hoe, again

And if you owe me baby, go head and show me baby
Pull up and pour it
I'mma go gold, let you know it
I got gold on my rolex
And I'm real bright like a poet
I look like a dope boy, I know it
I know I'm gonna win it like Floyd
I became an important lil' boy
Money long like a sock with some shorts

My bitch white and she brown like port
Ed-umacation abort, bookin' these dorks
I jumped off the porch and went north
Whipped you some dope full of narc-cotics
YSL hardbody, I got 'bout 20 chickens in the lobby, baby
Ride It, ride It Kawasaki, saki
I don't speak English I
I fuck that mouth, I'm not sexist
I'm the big homie, I'm leakin'
Stick to the streets like I'm cement
I don't need no change, you can keep it
I don't want your verse on my remix
No panties she my secret
Got a hunnid bands on me I'm cheesin'
This the sequel, lookin' down like an eagle

(It's Guwop), again
Thugger and Guwop, again
Chasin' that Guwop, again
That's my lil whoadie, again
We chasin that money baby, again
We fuckin' your hoe, again
And if you owe me baby, go head and show me baby
Pull up and pour it
I'mma go gold, let you know it
I got gold on my rolex
And I'm real bright like a poet
I look like a dope boy, I know it
I know I'm gonna win it like Floyd
I became an important lil' boy
Money long like a sock with some shorts


I got me a K in this place
Baby, don't play in this place
You can call me ace in this place
Ten thousand dollar vase in his face
Bring them racks out the safe
Go to church like Mase
Put a mask on my face
Beat the case and buy a case and he dead

Fuck a nigga bitch, that's all
Grabbin' on my dick, that's all
Stuntin' with my bitch, that's all
Grindin' with my clique, that's all
My cup gotta be muddy, that's all
She tell me that she love me, that's all
I wanna clean it with Lysol (fresh)

She fuckin' all my buddies, that's all

She fuckin' all my buddies
I might love fuckin' it, But I just cannot love it
I might catch a nigga, bitch and fuck her right I crush her
Bitch, I am a monster, I know I am a lil' ugly
I might pull up with all of my jewelry on my bus
Got a unique body, my clothes, get 'em from Russia
I might pull up and pimp that bitch just like a sucka
I don't give a fuck about these lil shrimps, I got my mustard, ketchup, nigga
Nigga loaded pimpin' pill tight, game right
I might eat it, I might beat it like Mike Ikes
Treat that pussy Tempurpedic, and call it a night
She compliment on my fly, and I ain't talking no flight
And therefore I love her
She make a nigga shine without using butter
My partner in crime, she won't tell like her mother
We don't want no one other, we got one another
She know I got her we got each other
She know I'ma grip her V when I fuck her

She know I'ma go over c's like a Blood
Hey baby my name Jeff and Mud

I got me a K in this place
Baby, don't play in this place
You can call me ace in this place
Ten thousand dollar vase in his face
Bring them racks out the safe

Go to church like Mase
Put a mask on my face
Beat the case and buy a case and he dead

Fuck a nigga bitch, that's all
Grabbin' on my dick, that's all
Stuntin' with my bitch, that's all

Grindin' with my clique, that's all
My cup gotta be muddy, that's all
She tell me that she love me, that's all
I wanna clean it with Lysol (fresh)

She fuckin' all my buddies, that's all
I won't hit that girl, no guacamole
I can see straight through you like a bullet

Shawty want my closet like a hood
Fuck all of my feelings, no good
Bitch I am a tiger, no wood
I done see more hoes than Tiger Woods
When she with me she just do it

She can't fit into these jeans don't do it
She remember me
She remember everything about me
She remember me
She remember, she remember everything
She remember me
She remember me
She do it, she do, she do
She remember I'm a young nigga
Every time she see those racks she wants her some nigga
She know I'm in her mouth just like some gum, nigga
I might give her my all, then some, nigga
I'm strapped my fingers itchin' check my palms, nigga
My girl gon' relax, and dressed in Toms, nigga
I got Lil' Bobby I am a tall nigga
You know my cup is pink, like bubblegum, nigga
Pink, pussy wetter than a sink
Out here on my knees
If I can't have you you're deceased
That means I couldn't be
Baby, I can't see, curiosity
In love with the opposite of me
Do you dig it?
Fuck a nigga bitch, that's all
Grabbin' on my dick, that's all
Stuntin' with my bitch, that's all
Grindin' with my clique, that's all
My cup gotta be muddy, that's all
She tell me that she love me, that's all
I wanna clean it with Lysol (fresh)
She fuckin' all my buddies, that's all


You dig what I'm saying?
If they all hundreds I'ma count it fast, yeah
Wanted money, I couldn't enjoy a class
I'ma big old player, I got it from my dad, yeah
Lil' mama dig what I'm sayin'
Keep it funky like an egg and you will never land
All my niggas they don't play, they all want it bad
My son a boss, he yellow be, the motherfucking man
I go crazy, I go brazy for these fucking bands
Fuck a lady, I replace her for these fucking bands
He so crazy, I'm not lazy, I want fucking bands yo

I'm a boss, fuck that bitch out on the balcony
I might take a picture and tell 'em to caption this
When I'm done fingering, I need a napkin and shit
Ocho Cinco, yes sir I'm catching it
Catch it, catch catch it, catch it catch it catch it
I'll take your necklace, I'll leave you neckless
I might not be cussing but I ain't bluffing
Niggas want problems, it's not nothing
I'm screaming bring it on like Gabrielle
I'ma real big dog, I don't kiss and tell, hell
First you want it then second you pale, yeah
Don't think he quick he pulled up like a snail, oh
Water in his eyes, I let that sucker go
And I forgot to tell her that you were po

I'm not doing a 20 year sentence about you, you a ho

But do you dig what I'm saying?
If they all hundreds I'ma count it fast, yeah
Wanted money, I could't enjoy a class
I'ma big old player, I got it from my dad, yeah
Lil' mama dig what I'm sayin'
Keep it funky like an egg and you will never land
All my niggas they don't play, they all want it bad
My son a boss, he yellow be, the motherfucking man
I go crazy, I go brazy for these fucking bands

Fuck a lady, I replace her for these fucking bands
He so crazy, I'm not lazy, I want fucking bands yo

Yes sir baby, yes sir
Take her nigga, flex her
I burn her while you turnin' gher up
And I got on Chucks but Young Thugga not stuck
Swear, swear swear, I swear I'm slimy
You break a rule on him or her, you get fined nigga
These niggas know I run it up so they don't try, nigga
I might screw you bitch with my broke pliers, nigga
Hell yeah, all my cars they go fish tail
Hell yeah, I'm YSL till I'm dead orpale
Kickin you niggas, getting money slow just like a snail
I told her the mail is how they send them bills
I can never be him but you can wish me well

I came a long way from shopping at clearance sales
She let me come in her hair just like some gel
I'ma real blood I know you smell

And dig what I'm saying?
If they all hundreds I'ma count it fast, yeah
Wanted money, I couldn't enjoy a class
I'ma big old player, I got it from my dad, yeah
Lil' mama digg what I'm sayin'
Keep it funky like an egg and you will never land
All my niggas they don't play, they all want it bad
My son a boss, he yellow be, the motherfuckin man
I go crazy, I go brazy for these fucking bands
Fuck a lady, I replace her for these fucking bands
He so crazy, I'm not lazy, I want fucking bands yo


(Gucci Mane:)
Yeah mutherfucker we got big cat in this mutherfucker laflare nigga guccie mane
The mutherfuckin gotto nigga it's a wrap then the whole industry we got this shit in the fuckin'
Head lock

(Big Cat:)
Yeah guccie we fuckin' this niggas up

(Gucci Mane:)
Cat we doin' more than fuckin' this niggas up we fuckin' this niggas hoes we got
More ice than this niggas we got mo money than this niggas we independent we making major
Niggas tuck they chain in ha ha ha

(Big Cat:)
I love it make this fuck niggas tuck they chain in gucci you know how we do baby

(Gucci Mane:)
I want to tell you ah my nigga just bought me a jacob right that bitch cost bout
60 right that bitch got yellow blue in green stones in it y'all bitches get y'all weight up out there


Put on your booty shorts
Ooh, I really like the sexy way you walk
Ooh, I like the way you make your booty talk
Everytime you put on your booty shorts
Believe dat girl

I don't holla at girls girls holla at me
I don't throw dollars at girls, they throw dollars at me
Gucci you conceited bitch I might be
Cause my chain so bright Stevie Wonder might see
Yeah you got a man but ya man ain't me
Add ya whole life savings times three
The mouth full of dro and the clothes ain't free
So you gotta be a dimepiece to approach me
How much 'unh can one girl take
How many cakes can one man bake
Playa on the real man I don't know
I just love it when they fresh and they ass cheeks show
Everybody stare when I walk in the room
Smokin' on purp got me high like the moon
Chain front big like its New Year's Eve
But my Rollie on fire like the first day of June

I neva seen a chick wit a body like that
Gucci Mane Lil Flap bitch I got it like that
Stuntin in the club wit my nigga Big Kap
Made the waitress come back wit 20 mo' stacks
Iced out chain got a iced out grill
Independent I ain't got no deal
Hood rich bitch do ya know the feelin'?
My watch worth damn near a quarter million
Shawty got some shorts on oh, so small
Say she like me cause my rims real tall
If you want work bitch you can call us
You in big wheels baby we some ballers
Money ain't a thang to the boy Gucci Mane
Old school Chevy same color cocaine
Ridin' through the hood throwin' money out the brain
And I'm lookin' for the girls wit the booty shorts mane

Candy Escalade 26 inch blades
Throw back money from back in eighth grade
Ya dancin in the club so I know ya get paid
But I betcha you'd look betta wit these microbraids
Girls in the club like dat there stank
Showin off three or four rubberband banks
Me and HB keep a big bankroll pulled up in a Hemi wit the Lambo Doors
Me and yo chick in a red corvette
I neva had shit nigga what ya expect
Neva seen a young man paint so wet hood rich and my album ain't even dropped yet
You'll neva see a man wit a watch like mine
Face real pretty and a body real fine
When we get home I'm a break her spine
Get in her ear and corrupt her mind


In the club tryin' to find me a bad ass broad
Gave her five for the pussy then I took her to the mall
That's all, babygirl that's all
18 for the whole nine-five for the half
Came up in the hood sellin fifty dollar slabs
That's all, playboy that's all

When them bottles start poppin' girls start jockin
The girl so fine that I took the chick shoppin'
Deuces on the old school smokin' on the dro fool
Know that it's a hit, my voice done hit the pro tool
Gucci mane frank nitty got it like
That never seen a chick wit a body like that
Shawty actin' feisty too damn sheisty
Get wit Gucci mane baby you be so icy
Can't lie baby girl you fine ass hell
Will I hit it in the first date time will tell
Baby says she like the way the top drop back
Never thought my home boy girl a jock like that
40 on the bracelet back to the basic
A mill worth of ice in these playa haters faces
A mill worth of ice Gucci mane good gracious
Got a sick flow and I think it's contagious

I ain't wit that flexin cat he investing
Tell these playa haters to check my Bds Benz
Like Yao Ming man my money staked tall
I deal for a half a mill nigga that's all
See a bad broad Gucci mane ill buy
The same dude you shop wit I'm his supplier
Gucci Gucci Gucci yours truly that's me
Hood rich or cocky I just might be
Wit my chain so bright Ray Charles might see
More ice on me than a game of hockey
If you want a mean dick you can ride in my six
Suck a good dick then I'll get your hair fixed
Gucci brake bricks down used to sell fifties
Watch on my wrist man it cost a buck fifty
King of the city Gucci mane Frank nitty
I'll gives a bitch a dove if she let me touch her tities

Gucci Mane make you look like you posed to look
Gucci shoes Gucci fit and a pocket book
Let you party like a rock star, ride in a boxcar
Have you gainin weight everyday eatin lobster
All you friends invited so you can bring a partner
Gucci in the hood sellin weed like a doctor
Fifty dollar slab to a trunk full of holes
Never at the house 'cause I'm always doing shows
Teamed up wit big cat now they want to chit chat
Role to crash road, flat shoals represent that
Gucci in the booth and my flows crazy
Is it hot in here nigga or it's just me
Have you at south beach falling of Jet Ski
Smokin' purple weed under shade of palm trees
In Biloxi we could spend a hundred gees
I'll play the ??? You can get the slot machine


Put on your booty shorts
Ooh, I really like the sexy way you walk
Ooh, I like the way you make your booty talk
Everytime you put on your booty shorts
Believe dat girl

I don't holla at girls girls holla at me
I don't throw dollars at girls, they throw dollars at me
Gucci you conceited bitch I might be
Cause my chain so bright Stevie Wonder might see
Yeah you got a man but ya man ain't me
Add ya whole life savings times three
The mouth full of dro and the clothes ain't free
So you gotta be a dimepiece to approach me
How much 'unh can one girl take
How many cakes can one man bake
Playa on the real man I don't know
I just love it when they fresh and they ass cheeks show
Everybody stare when I walk in the room
Smokin' on purp got me high like the moon
Chain front big like its New Year's Eve
But my Rollie on fire like the first day of June

I neva seen a chick wit a body like that
Gucci Mane Lil Flap bitch I got it like that
Stuntin in the club wit my nigga Big Kap
Made the waitress come back wit 20 mo' stacks
Iced out chain got a iced out grill
Independent I ain't got no deal
Hood rich bitch do ya know the feelin'?
My watch worth damn near a quarter million
Shawty got some shorts on oh, so small
Say she like me cause my rims real tall
If you want work bitch you can call us
You in big wheels baby we some ballers
Money ain't a thang to the boy Gucci Mane
Old school Chevy same color cocaine
Ridin' through the hood throwin' money out the brain
And I'm lookin' for the girls wit the booty shorts mane

Candy Escalade 26 inch blades
Throw back money from back in eighth grade
Ya dancin in the club so I know ya get paid
But I betcha you'd look betta wit these microbraids
Girls in the club like dat there stank
Showin off three or four rubberband banks
Me and HB keep a big bankroll pulled up in a Hemi wit the Lambo Doors
Me and yo chick in a red corvette
I neva had shit nigga what ya expect
Neva seen a young man paint so wet hood rich and my album ain't even dropped yet
You'll neva see a man wit a watch like mine
Face real pretty and a body real fine
When we get home I'm a break her spine
Get in her ear and corrupt her mind


(Feat. Young Jeezy, Boo)

I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy

All these girls excited
Ooh ya know they like it
I'm so icy, so icy
Girl don't try to fight it
All yo friends invited
I'm so icy, so icy

(1st Verse: Young Jeezy)
Got a house around my neck, and my wrist on chill
Any given time, 250 in ya grill (a quarter million?)
All I do is talk shit, u can even add a couple grand for my outfit
U betta act like ya know man, in my hood they call me Jeezy da Snowman
Ya get it? Get it? Jeezy da Snowman
I'm iced out, plus I got snow, man
Let it marinate, y'all niggaz is slow man (slow man)
(Man what the fuck y'all... yo dumb ass)
I used to get nineteen for a beat
Call me Ginuwine, the same 'ol G ('ol G)
I'm da shit biiiaaattch, I need toilet paper (dayuum!)
And some air freshener nigga, fuck a hata
These niggaz don't like me
I'm wit da Gucci Mane and I'm so icy

(2nd Verse: Gucci Mane)
She diggin my fit, she think I'm da shit
Is this a chain on my neck, or the watch in my wrist
Maybe the ice in my ear, or my bracelet
But she look like the type that could take a dick
Young Gucci Mane, don't kiss me baby you can kiss my chain
Ya gotta be a dime piece,
Just to look at the rocks in my time piece
I come through in a drop top Jag, or Old-School Chevy
Wit da antique tags
My pockets so heavy that I can't walk steady
Niggaz coppin ice we done done it already
Got a gold grill but it's not from Eddie
I ride big Chevys cuza nigga ain't petty
I'm icy, so muthafuckin snowed up, lil kids wanna
Be like Gucci when they grow up
Me, jeezy and Boo
We ain't hatin' pussy nigga 'gon and do what you do
'Cause we icy, so icy, we icy, so icy

(3rd Verse: Boo)
I'm hoppin out the range wit da seats piped out
You can still see my chain even when da lights out
'Cause dat's how monsters do it
Spit a lil game give 'em that flosser music
I'm da man from da C.H.I.
These lames runnin' 'round thinkin' they so fly
Got a lil buzz but Boo been too high
I'm pullin hoes in da club and I don't even try
I guess when she glance at my wrist, she wanna get my dick
I tell her holla at Jeezy if ya wanna pop Cris
Get at Gucci Mane 'cause he on some lil shit
And you know I'm in da cut, grippin my 4/5
Like let a nigga trip, naw we ain't runnin'
We just takin' all ya chicks, buyin drinks gettin' blunted
Groupies, show you how to do this son
We throwin' out hundreds while you savin' them ones

I got so many rocks, on my chain and watch
I know I'm da shit, my chain hang down to my dick
I know I'm da bomb, just look at my charms
I know I'm da shit, my chain hang down to my dick

I'm so icy
Look at my charms
My... chain... hang... down... to my dick


Gucci mane
Two Thangs
Trap House

Gucci Mane in da building (Gucci, Gucci)
Laflare, Big Kat (Laflare)
Say we got it like that (like that)
Everythang don't mean two thangs, watch this

Young Gucci Mane got a style so strange
Every word I use might mean two thangs (Repeat 3x)

Young Gucci Mane got a style so strange
Every word I use don't mean two thangs

Uh...

It ain't the way its da principle (uh)
What kind of student make mo money than da principal
And I never made da Honor Roll (uh)
But I'm in the lunch line with a honor Roll
U pumpin' iron in da weight room (uh)
I'm on da grind got a nine in da weight room
And I never play softball (uh)
But I always kept da hard and da soft balls
U doin' math on da calculator (uh)
I'm weighin slabs doin' math on a calculator
And I ain't tryna to write no essays (uh)
I'm tryna to get a hundred pounds for my eses
U tryna learn how ta speak Spanish (uh)
But my connect tryna teach me ta speak Spanish
And U a monitor in da hallway (uh)
I'm allday on da grind wit a 4-way

Uh...

U da one who won da Spelling Bee (uh)
I'm da first 3rd grader wit a felony
And I never was a teacher's pet (uh)
I'm da one who went and stole da teacher's cigarettes
And I never went on field trips (uh)
I'm at Walter's tryna buy me some stash slips
And I always been cut throat (uh)
15 takin' big niggas starter coats
Laflare entertainment by myself (uh)
But I used to have a high right, low left
Gettin' money by da truck loads (uh)
Rollin' up Big Fat el productos
Before I drank V.S.O.P. Remy
I used to drank that MD 22
Woodgrain and reverse 8's (uh)
Box Chevy trunk soudin' like a earthquake

Uh...

I gotta give it to you raw man (uh)
'Cause I still keep a trunk full of raw
I'm a nigga from da block man (uh)
In da club puttin' down wit da block man
U probably gotta worka 9 to 5 (uh)
I'm on da grind wit da nines for da 55
Bitch U a half of a 12 (uh)
Low Key bucket tryna duck 12's
So what's up wit dem T-shirts (uh)
I got a T-shirt tuck under my T-shirt
Better watch yo fuckin' tone man (uh)
'Cause you know Gucci keep a tone man

Uh...


We gon do it like this y'all
We gon do it like that y'all
We gon do it like this y'all (put yo ? in the club)
We gon do it like that y'all (why nitti on the track)

All the money don't matter to me (to me)
And all the ice don't matter to me (to me)
Your girlfriends don't matter to me (to me)
Any nigga don't matter to me (ay)
'Cause I don't need to fly to you
But yous the baddest chick I eva see (badest chick I ever see)
Come play on gucci team
Every good king needs a queen (needs a queen)

The way you walk is, so sexy
The way you talk is, so sexy
The way you move is, so sexy
Everything about you girl (everything about you girl)
My eyes deceiving me
She wants to be with me
She wants to sleep with me
Gucci needs two or three

I keep ya icy (so icy)
I have ya supa fresh (so fresh)
I know ya like me
You like the way I dress

Latley in love with me
I'm in light wood
The game me so head
I spit one night worth
Keep a college girl past her curfew
Says she like me and she like her too
Get a bitch suck a dick what she gon do?
Point at the house had ta point it on you
Tell your girlfriend and your best friend too
You can bring a whole dorm and they can have some fun too

All the money don't matter to me (to me)
And all the ice don't matter to me (to me)
Your girlfriends don't matter to me (to me)
Any nigga don't matter to me (ay)
'Cause I don't need to fly to you
But yous the baddest chick I eva see (badest chick I ever see)
Come play on gucci team
Every good king needs a queen (needs a queen)

The way you walk is, so sexy
The way you talk is, so sexy
The way you move is, so sexy
Everrything about you girl (everything about you girl)
My eyes deceiving me
She wants to be with me
She wants to sleep with me
Gucci needs two or three

I keep ya icy (so icy)
I have ya supa fresh (so fresh)
I know ya like me
You like the way I dress

A pretty young thang in some applebottom jeans
Gold tooth man (?) for the gucci man team
Says she like the way my gold grill gleam
And my chain hang low down to
Down to my ding a ling

Gotta bad yellow thang down at the AU
? Her she my girl
But the shit ain't true
I give a bitch the world but
She don't know what to do
Parasuca (?) office icey fresh hair dos.

All the money don't matter to me (to me)
And all the ice don't matter to me (to me)
Your girlfriends don't matter to me (to me)
Any nigga don't matter to me (ay)
'Cause I don't need to fly to you
But yous the baddest chick I eva see (badest chick I ever see)
Come play on gucci team
Every good king needs a queen (needs a queen)

The way you walk is, so sexy
The way you talk is, so sexy
The way you move is, so sexy
Everything about you girl (everything about you girl)

(Girl)
We hit the louie shop
'Cause all we do is shop
Shut down the parking lot
When we jumped out the truck
Jeans and a halter top
They askin what my name
Money don't matter
Tourgad (?) and gucci mane

Ima watch you through the hood on the 26's
Buy you a braclete real expensive
Gucci only holler at the baddest bitches
Love they way a boss bitch handle her business
Gucci man ? ...?
Fly down the street with my ?...
Gotta move the blow but its on the d-low
That's what they made the train and the greyhound for

All the money don't matter to me (to me)
And all the ice don't matter to me (to me)
Your girlfriends don't matter to me (to me)
Any nigga don't matter to me (ay)
'Cause I don't need to fly to you
But yous the baddest chick I eva see (badest chick I ever see)
Come play on gucci team
Every good king needs a queen (needs a queen)

The way you walk is, so sexy
The way you talk is, so sexy
The way you move is, so sexy
Everything about you girl (everything about you girl)


East atlanta zone 6
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
Glenwood to grasham road
That's my hood
That's my hood nigga
That's my hood
Bloaldercrest to flatshol
Nigga that's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
I can't forget clandler road
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood (uh)

Gangsta bidding everybody coppin
Niggas walking out wit bags like they goin' shoppin'
I'm on tha playstation playin' grand thief
I had a 100 bricks I got 3 left
Shootin c lows middle of tha day
I bet a 100 grand da nigga iced away
5:45 in tha afternoon
98 degrees and it's tha 1st of June
Niggas goin' in niggas gettin' out
Everybody strap and they griped out
12:00 on tha dot midnight
Bet 50 grand on a pit fight
6:43 and I'm wakin' up
Cookin cocaine and it's cakin up
9:00 on da dot rush hour
First you get the money then you get the power

East atlanta zone 6
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
Glenwood to grountry road
That's my hood
That's my hood nigga
That's my hood
Rolla 1st to flat show
Nigga that's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
I can't forget counter road
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood (uh)

Money real dirty 9:30
Got a trap to catch fo a quarter birdy
10:45 quater to 11
Ak 47 and a mac 11
1:17 my trap bunkin
If you from tha hood then you sellin sumthing
2:22 time to cook a deuce
Fo my lil partner I call his ass tha truth
3:34 time to swing tha doe
9600 fo a pound of dro
4:46 trunk fulla bricks
Can't stop trappin till I'm futhy rich
Dropped out of skool 1998
Bought a box chevy and a half of cake
2k3 hit a lic
100 pounds of weed 50 bricks

East atlanta zone 6
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
Glenwood to grountry road
That's my hood
That's my hood nigga
That's my hood
Rolla 1st to flat show
Nigga that's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
I can't forget counter road
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood (uh)

Age 13 I'm trap star
Paid a 50 slab fo a junky car
Skool stil in but I'm at home
Standing on tha corner wit sum uazone
Turned 15 I'm trapped out
Bet a 100 dollars just to crap out
17 now and I'm on tha grind
Neva stand in line at tha 55 dime
19 years blood sweat and tears
Sellin innertubes like good year
21 now I'm a grown up
So wen you call my phone it's a zone up
Age 25 and it's gettin' worst
18.5 fo a hook and verse
Fo I turn 30 I b 30 plus
Swimmin in tha bucs like scu by duck

East atlanta zone 6
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
Glenwood to grountry road
That's my hood
That's my hood nigga
That's my hood
Rolla 1st to flat show
Nigga that's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood
I can't forget counter road
That's my hood
That's my hood
Nigga that's my hood (uh)


(Intro/Chorus: repeat 2X)
Don't let yo' mouth write a check that yo' ass can't cash
I'm the lawnmower man and yo' ass is grass

Gucci Mane make a nigga wear a shit bag
Actin' bad like a kid at Six Flags
I'll send some slugs at yo' bitch ass
In my hood ain't no love for yo' bitch ass
Fifty pounds in the trash bag
Anybody move then that nigga gettin' blast at
Hit a lick for 'bout fifty stacks
Niggaz trippin' talkin' 'bout Gucci bring the money back
Half a brick and I'm breakin that
I'm in the trap where the junkies at
I'm gettin' fat, fuck a jumpin' jack
Zay' drop a track the whole industry be jockin that
I'll put a hole in your stocking cap
Work ya like a bitch at the Body Tap
I stay strapped, blow you off the map
Niggaz hate behind my back, but when they see me give me dap

Uh...
I'm from the hood I'll punch your lights out
I took your jewelry, now I'm iced out (icy icy)
Gucci Mane got that 'caine in
I swear I never tuck my chain in
You just a thug gettin' traded
I'm a thug entertainin
Really I'm a street nigga
That chopper on the seat, nigga
All ready for that beef, nigga
Yo, Gucci gotta eat, nigga
I guess I'll see you when I see you nigga
I wouldn't wanna be you nigga
Now ain't that like a nigga
Tryin' to sound like a nigga
A lover not a fighter nigga
But let me see yo' lighter nigga

You see the bracelet on my arm, my necklace, my charm
I'm dangerous and armed with grenades and bombs
Y'all done slumped out with tons of ones
In tha club puttin' on like "I'm Dapper Don"
Yours truly, young Gucci all I do is hustle hard
Never had credit but used my 2000 Mastercard
Grimy and gritty, hotter than cookin with lard
Gucci Mane on the block again and I'm cookin ya boys
It's that grown man shit, nigga bring all the toys
When I snap they'll have to call the lieutenant and sarge
Bring the whole entourage, see she thinkin' you hard
And watch how quick I load the chopper bullets you gotta dodge
Uh... Gucci Mane on the track nigga
Zaytoven on the track nigga
Big Cat, Laflare nigga
I'm the lawnmower man, nigga


Gucci Mane (Gucci Mane)
Big Cat, Laflare (Big Cat, Laflare)
Let's get it (let's get it)

Half a brick in a pyrex pot
Trying to make me a dope boy knot
Two pounds and I'm like real big
Stacking double see the nigga so big
I got to get it, got to get it, got to run my money up
Got to get it, got to get it, got to run my money up [3X]

Uh! I'm going on a Trap-A-Thon
Gucci Mane like Gotti I'm the Dapper Don
Uh! Hundred G's in my Gucci bag
So if you look at me wrong I'ma do yo' ass
Uh, Gucci Mane, I'm the bread and butter
Run trap, sell crack, nigga spread your hustle
Uh, pockets fatter than Oprah Winfrey
Gucci Mane I'm the baller of the fucking century
Uh, iced out like Babe an' them
I can sell mo' records than Shade an' them
Uh, Gucci Mane you're a cocky fella
I make it rain so you better get you umbrella
Uh, and my watch is on another level
Clusters of diamonds and they bunched together
Uh, why you talking so much shit?
Yo bitch, 'cause I'm so rich

Okay somethin' white like Michael Jackson
Bust the shit out the rubber then I start to trappin
Gucci Mane got the lone ticket
Run stack for the midget nigga fuck with me, uh
Shawty say he short a couple stacks
The diamond chain on my neck is doing jumping jacks, uh
Yo' money short like Spud Webb
Bend down nigga broke nigga need help, uh
My money talking like Dikembe
Gucci Mane I make a Friday out of Wednesday, uh
Mo dough than CVS
Still making moves, thuggin' with S-Y-S, uh
All my shows better be whippin up
J's keep the ash scrubs when we pick it up, uh
And me and Cad in a Hum-Vee
Yellow diamonds got me lookin' like a bumblebee, uh

Gucci got a plug, for the square face
Got them quarter ki's, I call 'em chicken wangs
Got the gangster peas, I call 'em collard greens
We got them ex pills, we call 'em skitters mayne
Gucci on the grind, catch me at the spot
Got some cocaine jumping out the damn pot
Get some cool water, it's too damn hot
All I want for Christmas is the dopeman knot
Hustle harder, be smarter
We gonna eat when I bring it out the water
36 O's, for the 17
Five for the drive, 17-5


(Chorus: Gucci Mane (Lil Scrappy) 2x)
I rob in my black tee
Hit licks in my black tee
All in ya house searchin for bricks in my black tee (Crank It)
I kill in my black tee
I steal in my black tee
I'm real so I gotta keep it trill in my black tee (O-kay-kay-kay)

(Verse 1: Gucci Mane)
You can catch me all in a nigga house wit a black tee
Gucci Mane, lil flair got a million dollar mouthpiece
Black Tee, black rag, even got a black mask
Leavin' out ya house, thirty pounds in my book bag
Black 'lac, black tag, fin' to hit a lick again
You a head bussa put yo hand wit yo fist den
Franchise hate me, probly wanna kill me
Remixed it wit Scrappy and now the hood feel me
Fresh on the scene wit the all black shirt
Gucci so gutta he'll steal money out ya purse
Lay up in ya yard, rob ya when ya go to church
Ya love white tees now ya face on the shirt
Black tee, black beat, trappin on the front street
Got a black pistol grip pump on the seat
Black tee, O.G., nigga don't approach me
Bubble gum wappin ass niggaz can't smoke me

(Verse 2: Bun B)
It's Bun B in his black tee &amp; G in his black tee
Reppin UGK and BAT in his black tee
Pimp in his black tee, mack in his black tee
Free Pimp C on the back of his black tee
Gucci chain swangin on the front of his black tee
Cadillac swangin, smokin' blunts in his black tee
Stunt in his black tee, Ball in his black tee
It ain jus me pimpin' we all got a black tee

(Verse 3: Young Jeezy)
And I got a 1-2 Bun
Got 36 O's for the 2-1
Jeezy 'bout them green guys
Got H-town goin' for the ten or fives
I'm talkin' cornflakes
Got inner tubes wrapped in black duck tape
Say it again dawg to make sure that ya heard me
Got my four-x black tee up under my jersey

(Verse 4: Killer Mike)
I got the all black Chevy on all black rims
Keep a small black gat in my all black Tims
On the all-black leather there's a all-black mack
Tryin' to snatch get ya black ass blowed the fuck back
44 to ya torso 4 in ya hat
Kick doja to ya house 'n' put it to a cataract
Gorillas wit banana clips goin' monkey in the back
They'll put yo ass in that black box, laid out flat

(Verse 5: Jody Breeze)
Look I slang in my white but I bang in my black tee
Gucci on the front, Jody Breeze on the back street
Chillin' by a black Cadillac on sum black feet
Scrappy in a Chevy watchin Scarface on the flat screen
Told y'all constantly, ride wit the pump wit me
Yup in my black tee, wit the nine underneath
I ain't gotta keep tellin' y'all niggaz ima G
Ima just cock back and leave sum blood on ya teeth

(Verse 6: 4-Tre)
I'm s-stainless in my black tee
Remainin in my black tee
On the grind 'cause I like to shine in my black tee
Diamond glistenin cross plus the background is a black tee
Thieve then come back sprayin rounds in my black tee
4-Tre, I want war in my black tee
Fuck them, probly neva wore a black tee
Workin in my black tee, smokin' purple in my black tee
I'm lookin' for twelve all out yo curtain in my black tee

(Verse 7: Lil Scrappy)
Fuck a white tee, I got my black tee and vest on
Fuck a sturdy shot, I'm goin' straight for the bread home
I don't know why y'all niggaz dropped move b
Cause now Raheem'll show ya punk ass a tree
Bust nuts in my black tee, sluts in my black tee
Now I'm smokin' nothin' but blunts in my black tee
Saw me in Valve then tried to fight me
Jus the same monkey shawty don't take me lightly


Since you can't get right Imma show you how to hustle, show you how to hustle show you how to hustle.
Make a grind all night, Imma show you how to hustle, show you how to hustle, show you how to hustle...
Put ya game down tight Imma show you how to hustle, show you how to husle, show you hwo to hustle.
It's an all night flight, Imma show you how to hustle, show you hustle, show you how to hustle (Yeah)
Maxine! (Phone Rings)

Maxine: Hello
Denaun: Can I speak to Maxine?
Maxine: Yeah this is me what's up?
Denaun: What up?
Maxine: Who dis?
Denaun: Denaun
Maxine: Yeah what's up?
Denaun: What are you doing?
Maxine: Nothing, just laying in bed
Denaun: Huh?
Maxine: Nothing, just laying in bed
Denaun: Why?
Maxine: I don't know, thinking about something freaky to do

Verse 1: Eminem
I know this crack fiend Maxine who needs a vaccine
She tests positive but tells you that her act's clean
Plus she got a sugar daddy
Asking every hooker that he takes in to crook her badly
If you mistook her sadly, on her reputation
You're in jepordation, if you ain't got no preparation
When you step away son, she got her face done
Looking provocative, she'll let you knock it if
You press the issue and get undressed to kiss you
If you match the price, otherwise she won't look at you twice
But when you catch the lice, or get the urgency
To go to the emergency cause it burns to pee
Don't bring your germs to me, 'cause I ain't trying to hear it
While your fighting you fucking disease trying to clear it (Maxine!)

Verse 2: Denaun Porter
Sometimes I wonder, what's your purpose? In life that is
To get with every brother and unveil one of his kids, shit
You living trife, got three kids at home and club hopping every night
You say it's gonna stop but it... just... slows... down
And then speeds back to a regular pace, there is no end to this
Mystery, whatever your reason even is to be
You say you wanna be with me, but how can you say that
When you got niggas hiding in your closet
I refrain from getting angry but you keep on that strangely

I met this girl last week, she was a freak, and she liked me
So I stepped on it and then asked my homies
And chilled on the side and then watched they niggas
Big game over there and take notes, while I get this number
I stepped to her first I cleared my throat and said "Hey Bitch...
Haven't I seen you before?", looked at my nigga
Turned around and got slapped throughout my hands
And said "Oh it's like that?"
She said she just broke up with her nigga and shit
She started crying, and asked me to forgive her and shit
She said her name was Maxine, so I told her I wanted her number
She asked could I give her mine two
Got to the crib and called her up
We got into a good conversation that's when she asked me could I fuck
I said "Maxine check this out,
Give me your address I'll be through and you'll find out"
Got to the crib she let me in
She didn't waste time she grabbed my hand and proceeded to the bedroom
I said "Hold up, and stop proceeding, you rushing things"
What the fuck are you doing?
So I went for my protection, took off my clothes and started flexing
As she went for my midsection
I threw her down as I tore off her shirt
Pulled out my jimmy and I thought about putting in work
Before I hit it she said
"3 don't get mad but there's something that I gotta tell your ass"
I said "What is it, another nigga? It's ok"
She said "No I forgot to tell you, that I got AIDS"
I got up out

Denaun: Hey, Maxine
Maxine: What
Denaun: You thinking about sucking my dick?
Maxine: Yeah for a small price
Denaun: For a small price? What you mean?
Maxine: You know, money nigga
Denaun: You don't need no damn money,
I can't give you no money anyways, I heard you got some shit.
Maxine: (laughing) What you, what you hear I got?
Denaun: AIDS
Maxine: (laughing) Who told you that bullshit?
Denaun: My nigga Kyu, he wouldn't lie
Maxine: Well if that's the case, Kyu got it then
Denaun: Oh for real, it's like that?
Maxine: (laughing) Well I ain't got shit,
So he ain't got shit, and if he do, he ain't get that shit from me,
I ain't fucking around with no 3rd nigga
Denaun: Fuck that, I ain't fucking with you
Maxine: No, see...
Denaun: You got that shit, I ain't gotta fuck with you
Maxine: Hold on, why it ain't even like that
Denaun: I want y'all to get paid, fucking...
Maxine: (laughing as the phone hangs up)


Hey yo, what's up man? Hey, yo you been here all day man
Y'all been here every weekend man,
I don't ever get a chance to rap first man!
That's cause you whack!
What?!? I ain't whack nigga, I got some raps for all y'all
Nigga my raps fresh, I'ma bust my raps first,
You can bust yours after me if you want to
No no man, I'm going first,
I'm getting tired of everybody wanted to go first man
You always rap first,
I'm rapping I don't care what none of y'all say,
I'm fresh, I'm fresh

Thyme:
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
I said who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know

Verse 1: Eminem
I'll have you taken back to Christ when you're sacrificed
The way you're hacked and sliced when I fill your back with knives
Jacking lives of MC's, now I'm set to launch a plan
For blowing up the stage with illegal contraband
I stomped your man so unless you want what he got
You best just set the mic down, I'm steaming like a teapot
I'll make the tea hot, people get in my face and ask
If I wanna battle, then I chase them in a Jason mask
It's an amazing task to battle with success
I never gave a fuck, now I give a fuck less
And in a slug fest I get physical like physicians
Invisible like magicians with mystical mic traditions
Wicked wizardry like a sorcerer, no remorse for you
When I torture you throughout the course of my orchestra
So feel the force of my spiritual images
Slicing up an enemy's appendages till he hemorrhages
My skin itches every time a rapper recites
And when he's through with his verse, I'm all covered in flea bites
You wanna see fights I got a match for you
You couldn't flip shit playing in toilets with a spatula

Chorus: Thyme
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know

Verse 2: Eminem
You bitches get a hysterectomy disrespecting me
You wanna feel the full effect of me, hand a tech to me
Intellectually superior, I'll make the whack wearier
Inferior, deteriorate, like bacteria
Materially, killing serially, clearly you'll see
How much in fear when you hear me you'll be, and
Shiver and shake, quiver and quake
Bite a rhyme and feel your jaw get stiffer and ache, wither and break
You slithering snake, gibbering fake, fibbering flake
I'll twist you into a different shape
And toss you in Michigan Lake, for fishermen's sake
If this is a dream you'd wish you can wake
Every diss you can take, personal
We ain't friends trying to make amends
If you ain't ever stole a gate you can take a fence (take offense)
I make intense masterpieces and smash to pieces
Your last releases, you pass diseases, that's the reason
I'm showing you the proper way to operate a mic
So pass it like a hot potato
I've never been less than clever and fresh
Severing flesh of fools who never impressed ever infest

Chorus: Thyme
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out man I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo, who the fuck passed you the mic man and said that you can flow?
Point him out bitch I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and then said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Whhhooo the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Point him out! I wanna know
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
(Scratched in) I wanna know, I wanna know
Ayo let me get that mic man'
Who the fuck passed you the mic and said that you can flow?
Who the fuck passed you the mic, who the fuck passed you the mic!
I got the rhymes bitch, I'll kick that shit


Denaun what up man?
What up dog?
Ya all right?
Chillen, cold as hell
Yes it is, hey Bus didn't come here did it?
No, hey look, you got fifteen cent?
Nah, I got just enough to get on the bus, I'm broke
We gotta go to the store right man quick 'cause I'm short
Yeah, we gonna have enough time to go to the store?
Nah, look...
You should just, how much you got there?
I only got 75, you know what I'm sayin' I'm sure I got a dollar know what I mean...
Just throw it in there they ain't gonna know
You know what they look, I'm sick of taking this darn bus everywhere man
You gotta make some moves or something
I know look, I'm trying to get rich,
I got a baby on the way, I don't even got a car,
You know what I'm saying?
I still stay with my mom, 21 and still with my mom
Look hey, we gotta make some hit records or something,
You know what I'm saying? 'Cause I'm tired of being broke

Cause all I do is yearn a life without a concern
And dream of having a turn to earn money to burn
Mapping out my strategies to get rich huh
My desire is like a scratch that needs to get itched huh
Cause man I live in the D, this crap ain't given for free
Nothing's different to me, so what, it's easy to see
I'll be the prisoner to flee, all of this misery
I'm not wishing to be another fish in the sea
But just an MC, so listen to me, but if you disagree
You missing the key, you ain't even in the vicinity
Unconditionally my aspects to cash checks
My objects were never to swab decks
It's up to you the decision is yours
If what you vision is tours, or a mission less course
When this shit is in the stores, cause you can be a star

No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

You know what I'm saying, see what I'm talking about man?
Cause that's it
Yeah
A million dollars ain't even that far away man
Yo we got to get the money man, I can't be broke for the rest of my life
Yeah I hear what your saying,
Look there's got to be something better, you know what I'm saying?
I can't live like this for the rest of my life man,
Bumming rides everywhere I go
Yeah, what's up with Lexus' and Land cruisers'?

Yo I'm not about to chance it and dismiss handling business
I'm canceling Christmas to gamble and risk this
Financial interest is the matter at hand
I got an adequate plan for stab at a grand
I grab what I can and do what I must
Pursue what I lust, it's true that I just choose
The few that I trust, thems the people that I still got
F*** with gangsta fill pot, get your grill shot
The 5 Elemantz for life my man Thyme
Proof, Kyu and Denaun, we move through into time
My crews true and divine, we never fronted
We just wanted to be funded, and live to be a hundred
Instead of hunted or being wanted as fugitives
It's all about a man planning what his future is
What he can do for his to be a star

No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh, cause you can be king
You can rule the world, you can do anything
It's on you baby, cause you can be a star
No matter wherever you are, you're never too far
From revenue huh

That's what I'm talking about, I'm not trying to be the player,
I'm trying to be the man, I'm want to be President
Yo forgot that President man I'm trying to be king,
Making dead presidents, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah
Getting money anytime I want owning my own businesses and all that,
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, I'm trying to be a millionare man, hahaha, but don't all you know
You only live once
Ninety six baby


Women Singing:
Ain't no one special, special like you
No one's special, special like you (3X)
I been searching, but you're the one I want in my life baby (4X)

Verse 1: Eminem
I'm reminiscing on your tenderness and the snuggling and teasing
Missing what I remember, kissing and hugging and squeezing
Bugging and weezing, I'm having trouble when breathing
It's even tougher when sleeping
But there's a couple of reasons that I'm suffering and grieving
For loving and leaving, you're all I'm thinking of in the evening
You got my knees buckling and weakening
Thoughts of nothing but freaking that I'm struggling to keep in
And interrupt when I'm speaking
I got some game that I'm preparing to run
The way your lips sparkle and they glare in the sun
You got your hair in a bun, no matter what you're wearing you stun
Cause your comparing to none, I wanna share in the fun
I feel a passionate lust when I'm imagining just us alone at last with a
Touch
I see you grasping to trust, but my intentions are good
The seed is passing in dust
I'm not asking to rush and answer me immediately
I just wanna be there for you and you to be there for me
If you agree to repeat after me, I Love You (I love you baby)
'Cause I just need you to see, how much I'm eager to be
Your man legally wed, your love's keeping me fed
This is easily said, so you can lead or be led
If you care to be down cause ain't nobody Like you no where to be found

Women Singing:
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (4X)

Verse 2: Denaun Porter
Baby it's all on you, it's you I call on boo
Let's set a day up so you can fall on through
We'll take a spin in a Lexus you can chill for dinner and breakfast
Long enough to see how this gentleman sex'es
We'll start it out with caviar, Don Parigne
And then when it's a fact we are warm, carry on
We'll take it slow, see nobody will hurry things
I got the herbs the Bacardi and Hurricane
If Daiquiris are in debate and not your thing that day
It's still all right 'cause I got Minute Maid and Tangeray
Your an incredible one that's rare, in bed with edible underwear
You look impeccable, nothing compares
I dream of freaking you, the women that will speak it too so
It seems that there is not an end to things that we can do so
Now we all set to play, only thing left to say is
When you step away, baby but don't forget the Neglicie

Women Singing:
I been searching, but your the one I want in my life baby (8X)
(Fades) No one special, special like you (2X)


Police voice:
Attention all units, attention all units
We have an All Points Bulletin out on a man with green hair
I repeat, we have an APB on a man with green hair
He's armed with a knife, I repeat, he's armed with a knife
Proceed with caution, watch your back fella's
He could be coming at your girlfriend next

There's a joker on the loose from the psychiatric ward
His face is up on the bulletin board with a reward
He'll stab you with a sword don't be fooled by his charm
He's probably armed with intent to do bodily harm
Ring the alarm, look for a man with green hair
Check at your girl's house, he was last seen there
He's has a mean stare but usually crack's jokes
Good luck on your mission and guard your backs folks

I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

We got the walkie-talkies to keep us all informed
Suited up head to toe in detective uniforms
Our unit storms in, we split the ghetto in sectors
Locking down every block and put up metal detectors
Protectors and be sure that you stand close
Watch each others backs and guard your command post
And most of all be advised that he's wise
He could be disguised as one of your very own guys

I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

I'm on a solo mission to find him personally
To settle the score and beat then him mercifully
For what he first did to me
It's sure to be the last
Following footprints with a magnifying glass
To drag his lying ass back to his padded cell
I'm mad as hell, on the trail of the tattle tail
I heard a yell the voice sounded familiar
"Give me your girlfriend or I'm gonna kill ya"

I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

I followed the voice that led down a flight of steps
Sneezing at dust, and swinging at the spider-webs
Inside the depths of his basement
I taste lint in my mouth, then the lights in the place' went!
I saw my life flash in front of my eyes
I felt a butcher knife slash at one of my thighs
None of my guys knew where I'm at I was doomed
Then I remembered the flashlight in my costume

I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!

Dealing with backstabber's there was one thing I learned
They're only powerful when you got your back turned
I yearned for the day that we finally met again
So I can give him a taste of his own medicine
He shed his skin, then he promised to come clean
I took his butcher knife and jabbed it into his spleen
Cut him at the seam then dragged the fella home
Beating him over the head with the telephone

Police voice:
Attention all cars, attention all cars
Unit 313 has apprehended the suspect
He's going back to the crazy home, I repeat
He's going back to the crazy home, how about that?

I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!
I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Hit a bitch snake from the back, I make you think you're a best friend then
Why I oughtta
Stay away from him he ain't no good!


Men singing:
Jealous! (8X)

Girls voice: (Talking over the singing)
Jealous!?! What he mean jealous, know what I'm saying?
He just mad 'cause he got with some ugly hoes, know what I'm saying?
Girls don't buy him no clothes, He bought that ho some clothes!
He don't buy me no clothes, Nigga ain't got no money, no vibe, no dick
I mean, What do I got to be jealous for?
He ain't gonna make it no where, he ain't got no type of time
He has no career move, I mean...

I come home every single day from working double shifts
And stop along the way to pick you up a couple gifts
I come inside and you pretend you miss me when you kiss me
Then you diss me and we strenuously fight continuously
Again you frisk me, for numbers trying to bust me
It must be only just because you never learned to trust me
Plus we only squabble only irrelevant issues
Too many tissues, for my feelings you misuse
I buy you jewelry, you make a fool of me
I bring you diamond rings you say I'm bad at timing things
So what's a man to do when all I hand to you is handed back to me
You act to be this gangsta bitch, that ain't what first attracted me
I used to love your company now you always bugging me
For information and you tell your friends you plan on dumping me
So I'ma wait for your evacuation
Cause every accusation makes me wanna smack your face in
See I've never been so sure, and your just insecure
So my solution to your jealousy presents a cure
I recommend you take your things and check them in
Look at the nervous wreck I'm in, I need my second wind, Say What?

Chorus: Men Singing
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (8X)

Women's Voice: (Talking over singing)
Fuck you and what you going through
Fuck Eminem, he just mad 'cause I left that nigga for another man
Me and Eminem don't need nothing but my and his money
Immature, Me? Nigga ain't got no dick, no swang in his thang
Know what I'm saying? He just mad 'cause I'm getting it all night
Jealous of me, know what I'm saying? That's what I'm talking about
Mother fucker just trying to get his pussy

I used to be a puppet and a sucker for your silent treatments
I used to be intoxicated with your sweet sense
Until the day I started following your feetprints
And tapping in your phone conversations through the heat vents
It made complete sense, there's someone else you like
So I confronted you and asked you who was Mike?
And you was like, **I need a new nigga** (sampled)
Someone rich that I could follow
And you'll be over me by the time you see tomorrow
Leaving me in sorrow, Brandy never felt so broken hearted
I fell apart when you departed then the joking started
I was an open target, you play comedian
And I became the laughing stock. but now I'm on my feet again
And so we meet again, your acting like an ex-wife
All in my sex life, I got a message from Phife
He goes, "You didn't want me to see you then, I don't want you now"
Take a towel, wipe your brow, quit trying to hunt me down
You run me down and now your trying to apologize
For all the lies and every time you made me ball my eyes
Because I got a bigger wallet size, you wanna swing it
Jealousy is in the house y'all, Fellas sing it...

Chorus: Men Singing
Jealous, Jealousy, Jealousy (12X)


(Slim Shady)
"Eminem!"

(Eminem)
"No!"

(Slim Shady)
"Eminem!"

(Eminem)
"No!"

(Slim Shady Laughs)
"Wake the fuck up, motherfucker!"

(Eminem)
"What do you want from me?!"

(Slim Shady laughs again)
"Remember me?"

(Eminem)
"I killed you!"

(Slim Shady)
"You thought I was dead, didn't you?"

(Eminem)
"What do you want from me!?"

(Slim Shady)
"I'm alive!"

(Eminem)
"Oh, my God!"

(Slim Shady)
"Get up."

(Eminem)
"No!"

(Slim Shady)
"Get up and look in the mirror."

(Eminem)
"I don't want to!"

(Slim Shady)
"Look in the mirror, to see your reflection."

(Eminem)
"Leave me alone!"

(Slim Shady Laughs again)
"Look in the mirror --- you're nothing! you're nothing without me!
Look in the motherfucking mirror!"

(Eminem)
"NO!" [Glass Shatters]


Warning, this shit's gon be rated R, restricted
You see this bullet hole in my neck? It's self inflicted
Doctor slapped my momma, "Bitch you got a sick kid"
Arrested, molested myself and got convicted
Wearing visors, sunglasses and disguises
Cause my split personality is having an identity crisis
I'm Dr. Hyde and Mr. Jekyl
Disrespectful
Hearing voices in my head while these whispers echo
"Murder Murder Redrum"
Brain size of a bread crumb
Which drug will I end up dead from
Inebriated, till my stress is eleviated
"How in the fuck can Eminem and shady be related?"
Illiterate, illigitimate shit spitter
Bitch getter, hid in the bush like Margot Kidder
Jumped out (Ah!) killed the bitch and did her
Use to let the babysitter suck my dick when I was little'er
Smoke a blunt while I'm titty fuckin' Bette Midler
Sniper, waiting on your roof like the Fiddler
Y'all thought I was gonna rhyme with Riddler
Didn't Ya? Bring your bitch I wanna see if this dick gon' fit in her

(Redman Sample)
I'm low down and I'm shiftee
And if you hear a man that sounds like me smack'em
And ask him where the fuck did he get his damn raps from

I lace tunes, I'm out this world like Space Moons
With a bunch crazed loons dismissin brains like braze wounds
Nothing but idiots and misfits, dipshits
Doing whippits, passed out like Sanford snippits
Where's the weed, I wanna tamper with it
I'ma let your grandpa hit it
Mix it up with cocaine so her can't forget it
Fuck it, maybe I'm a bum
But I was put on this earth to make your baby mama cum
So what I'm on is way beyond the bomb or any alcoholic beverage
Losing all of my leverage
Went up inside the First National Bank broke, and left rich
Walking bio-hazard causing wreckage
Smoked out like?
Band just making my neck itch
What the fuck? Gimme the tech bitch
You just lost your tip, there's a pubic hair in my breakfast
Got shit popping off like bottle cap tips
Get your cap peeled like the dead skin of your mama's chapped lips
Slap hips, support domestic violence
Beat your bitches ass while your kids stare in silence
I'm just joking, is Dirty Dozen's really dust smoking?
If all your shit's missing, than probably one of us broke in

My head's ringing, like it was Spider Sense tingling
Lit it like Green Bay did when they shitted on New England
I'm out the game, put the second string in
This Brandy got my swinging
Bobbing back and forth like a penguin
Delinquent, toking microphones with Broken English
Make your mama be like "Oh! This is good! Who sing this?"
"Slim Shady, his tape is dope, I love it
It's rugged, but he needs to quit talking all that drug shit."
It was predicted by a medic
I'd grow to be an addicted diabetic
Living off liquid Triametic
Pathetic, but I don't think this headache's ever vanishing
Panicing, I think I might have just took too much Anasin
Frozen Manaquin, posted stiffer than a statue
I think I'm dying, God is that you?
Somebody help me, before I OD on an LP
Take me to ER ASAP for and IV
Motherfuck JOP, they don't support no hip hop
They say that's where it ends, the closest they gon come is Tupac
It's politics, it's all a fix
Setup by these white blue collared hicks
Just to make a dollar off of black music
With a subliminal ball of tricks
But those can kiss ass and swallow dicks


Spoken:
Life; by Marshall Mathers.
What is life?
Life is like a big obstacle in front of your optical to slow you down, and every time you think you gotten past it, it's gonna come back around and tackle you to the damn ground.
What are friends?
Friends are people that you think are your friends, but they really your enemies with secret identities and disguises to hide they true colors.
So just when you think you close enough to be brothers, they wanna come back and cut your throat when you ain't lookin'.
What is money?
Money is what makes a man act funny.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money'll make them same friends come back around, swearing that they was always down!
What is life?
I'm tired of life!

I'm tired of backstabbing ass snakes with friendly grins
I'm tired of committing so many sins
Tired of always giving in when this bottle of Henny wins
Tired of never having any ends
Tired of having skinny friends hooked on crack and mini-thins
I'm tired of this DJ playing your shit when he spins
Tired of not having a deal
Tired of having to deal with the bullshit without grabbing the steel
Tired of drowning in my sorrow
Tired of having to borrow a dollar for gas to start my Monte Carlo
I'm tired of motherfuckers spraying shit and dartin' off
I'm tired of jobs startin' off at five fifty an hour
Then this boss wonders why I'm smartin' off
I'm tired of being fired every time I fart and cough
Tired of having to work as a gas station clerk
For this jerk breathing down my neck, driving me berserk
I'm tired of using plastic silverware
Tired of working in Building Square, tired of not being a millionaire

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand
I'd make the world suck my dick without a condom on while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, 'cause I'd still be out robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

I'm tired of being white trash: broke and always poor
Tired of taking pop bottles back to the party store
Tired of not having a phone
Tired of not having a home to have one in if I did have one on
Tired of not driving a BM
Tired of not working at GM, tired of wanting to be him
Tired of not sleeping without a Tylenol PM
Tired of not performing in a packed coliseum
Tired of not being on tour
Tired of fucking the same blonde whore after work in the back of a Contour
I'm tired of faking knots with a stack of ones
Having a lack of funds and resorting back to guns
Tired of being stared at
Tired of wearing the same damn Nike Air hat
Tired of stepping in clubs wearing the same pair of Lugz
Tired of people saying they're tired of hearing me rap about drugs
Tired of other rappers who ain't bringin' half the skill as me
Saying they wasn't feeling me on "Nobody's As Ill As Me"
I'm tired of radio stations telling fibs
Tired of JLB saying "Where Hip-Hop Lives"

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand
I'd make the world suck my dick without a condom on while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, 'cause I'd still be out robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

Spoken:
You know what I'm saying?
I'm tired of all of this bullshit!
Telling me to be positive?
How'm I 'posed to be positive when I don't see shit positive?!
You know what I'm sayin'?
I rap about shit around me, shit I see, know what I'm sayin'?
Right now I'm tired of everything!
Tired of all this playa hating that's going on in my own city, can't get no airplay, you know what I'm sayin'?
But hey, it's cool though, you know what I'm sayin'?
Just fed up!
That's my word!


Whoa!
A get your hands in the air, and get to clappin' 'em
And like, back and forth because ah
This is... what you thought it wasn't...
It beez.. the brothers representin' the Dirty Dozen
I be the F-R-O the double G *coughing*
And check out the man he goes by the name of er...

Slim Shady, brain dead like Jan Brady
I'm a M80, you Lil' like that Kim lady
I'm buzzin', Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer
Cursin' at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You wacker than the motherfucker you bit your style from
You ain't gon' sell two copies if you press a double album
Admit it, fuck it, while we comin' out in the open
I'm doin' acid, crack, smack, coke and smokin' dope then
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall)
I have a disease and they don't know what to call it
Better hide your wallet cause I'm comin' up quick to strip your cash
Bought a ticket to your concert just to come and whip your ass
Bitch, I'm comin' out swingin', so fast it'll make your eyes spin
You gettin' knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson
The Proof is in the puddin', just ask the Deshaun Holton
I'll slit your motherfuckin' throat worse than Ron Goldman

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin' "Fuck the world," like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck!!
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck!!

So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck!!
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you gon' get stuck, stoned and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck!!

I'm nicer than Pete, but I'm on a search to crush a milkbone
I'm everlasting, I melt Vanilla Ice like silicone
I'm ill enough to just straight up diss you for no reason
I'm colder than snow season when it's twenty below freezin'
Flavor with no seasonin', this is the sneak preview
I'll diss your magazine and still won't get a weak review
I'll make your freak leave you, smell the Folgers crystals
This is a lyrical combat, gentlemen hold your pistols
But I form like Voltron and blast you with my shoulder missiles
Slim Shady, M&amp;M was the old initials (Bye-bye!)
Extortion, snortin', supportin' abortion
Pathological liar, blowin' shit outta proportion
The looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic
Impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict
Half animal, half man
Dumpin' your dead body inside of a fuckin' trash can
With more holes than an Afghan

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin' "Fuck the world," like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck!!
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck!!

So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck!!
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you gon' get stuck, stoned and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck!!

Somebody let me out this limousine (Hey, let me out!)
I'm a caged demon, on stage screamin' like Rage Against the Machine
I'm convinced I'm a fiend, shootin' up while this record is spinnin'
Clinically brain dead, I don't need a second opinion
Fuck droppin' the jewel, I'm flippin' the sacred treasure
I'll bite your motherfuckin' style, just to make it fresher
I can't take the pressure, I'm sick of bitches
Sick of naggin' bosses bitchin' while I'm washin' dishes
In school I never said much, too busy havin' a head rush
Doin' too much rush had my face flushed like red blush
Then I went to Jim Beam, that's when my face grayed
Went to gym in 8th grade, raped the women's swim team
Don't take me for a joke I'm no comedian
Too many mental problems got me snortin' coke and smokin' weed again
I'm goin' up over the curb, drivin' on the median
Finally made it home, but I don't got the key to get in

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin' "Fuck the world," like 2Pac
I just don't give a fuck!!
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin'
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck!!

So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck!!
But see me on the street and duck
'Cause you fin' ta get stuck, stoned and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck!!

Shit, fuck everyone!
Outsidaz...
Pace One...
Young Zee...
Fuck the entire world!


Intro: Frogg

Whoa!
A get your hands in the air, and get to clappin 'em
And like, back and forth because ah
This is... what you thought it wasn't
It beez... the brothers representin' the Dirty Dozen
I be the F-R-O the double G *coughing in background*
And check out the man he goes by the name of er...

Verse One: Eminem

Slim Shady, brain dead like Jim Brady
I'm a M80, you Lil' like that Kim lady
I'm buzzin, Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer
Cursin at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer
You wacker than the motherfucker you bit your style from
You ain't gonna sell two copies if you press a double album
Admit it, fuck it, while we comin' out in the open
I'm doin' acid, crack, smack, coke and smokin' dope then
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall)
I have a disease and they don't know what to call it
Better hide your wallet 'cause I'm comin' up quick to strip your cash
Bought a ticket to your concert just to come and whip your ass
Bitch, I'm comin' out swingin', so fast it'll make your eyes spin
You gettin' knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson
The +Proof+ is in the puddin', just ask the Deshaun Holton
I'll slit your motherfuckin throat worse than Ron Goldman

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin Fuck the World like Tupac
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuuuuuck!
But see me on the street and duck
Cause you gon' get stuck, stoned, and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuuuuuck!

Verse Two: Eminem

I'm Nicer than Pete, but I'm on a Serch to crush a Miilkbone
I'm Everlast-ing, I melt Vanilla Ice like silicone
I'm ill enough to just straight up diss you for no reason
I'm colder than snow season when it's twenty below freezin
Flavor with no seasonin, this is the sneak preview
I'll diss your magazine and still won't get a weak review
I'll make your freak leave you, smell the Folgers crystals
This is a lyrical combat, gentlemen hold your pistols
But I form like Voltron and blast you with my shoulder missiles
Slim Shady, Eminem was the old initials (Bye-bye!)
Extortion, snortin, supportin abortion
Pathological liar, blowin' shit out of proportion
The looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic
Impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict
Half animal, half man
Dumpin your dead body inside of a fuckin' trash can
With more holes than an Afghan

Verse Three: Eminem

Somebody let me out this limousine (hey, let me out!)
I'm a caged demon, on stage screamin like Rage Against the Machine
I'm convinced I'm a fiend, shootin up while this record is spinnin
Clinically brain dead, I don't need a second opinion
Fuck droppin' the jewel, I'm flippin the sacred treasure
I'll bite your motherfuckin style, just to make it fresher
I can't take the pressure, I'm sick of bitches
Sick of naggin bosses bitchin while I'm washin dishes
In school I never said much, too busy havin' a headrush
Doin' too much rush had my face flushed like red blush
Then I went to Jim Beam, that's when my face grayed
Went to gym in eighth grade, raped the women's swim team
Don't take me for a joke I'm no comedian
Too many mental problems got me snortin coke and smokin' weed again
I'm goin' up over the curb, drivin' on the median
Finally made it home, but I don't got the key to get in

Outro: Eminem

Hey, fuck that!
Outsidaz...
Pace One...
Young Zee...


Come on hey hey we goin' to the beach
Grab a couple of toys and let dada strap you in the car seat
Where's Mama?
She's takin' a little nap in the trunk
Oh that smell dada must have run over a skunk
Now I know what you're thinkin':
It's kind of late to go swimmin'
But you know your mama she's one of those types of women
Who does crazy things and if she don't get her way she'll throw a fit
Don't play with daddy's toy knife, honey, let go of it
And don't be so upset, why you actin' bashful?
Don't you wanna help dadda build a sand castle?
And mama said she wants to show how far she can float
And don't worry about that little boo-boo on her throat
It's just a little scratch it don't hurt
Her was eatin' dinner while you was sleepin' and spilled ketchup on her shirt
Mama's messy, isn't she, we'll let her wash off in the water
And me and you can play by ourselves, can't we?

Just the two of us (sung) repeat 8-9 times

There's a place called heaven and a place called hell
A place called prison and a place called jail
And dada's probably on his way to all of 'em except one
'Cause mama's got a new husband and a stepson
And you don't want a brother do ya? (Na)
Maybe when you're old enough to understand a little better, I'll explain it to ya
But for now we'll just say that mama was real, real bad
She was bein' mean to dad and made him real, real mad
But I still feel sad that I put her in time out
Sit back in your chair honey, quit tryin' to climb out
I told you it's okay, hey hey, wanna baba?
Take a night-night, nana-boo, goo-goo ga-ga
Humma goo-goo caca, dad'll change your dighty
Clean the baby up so her can take a nighty-nighty
You're dad'll wake her up as soon as we get to the water
'97 Bonnie and Clyde, me and my daughter

Just the two of us (sung)

Wake up sleepy head we're here
Before we play, we're gonna take mama for a little walk along the pier
Baby, don't cry honey, don't get the wrong idea
Mama's too sleepy to hear you screamin' in her ear
That's why you can't get her to wake
But don't worry, dada made a nice bed for mama at the bottom of the lake
Here, you wanna help dada tie a rope around this rock?
We'll tie it to her footsies then will roll her off the dock
Ready now, here we go, on the count of three
One, two, three... weeeeeeeeee
There goes mama splashin' in the water
No more fightin' your dad, no more restrainin' order
No more step dada, no more new brother
Blow her kisses bye-bye, tell mama you love her
We'll go play in the sand, build a castle and junk
But first, just help dad with two more things out the trunk

Just the two of us (sung)


Bizarre
Yeah... ha ha ha (BANG!), Yeah, Bizarre Kid comin' at you
Eminem and Fuzz, and Mr. Swifty, ha ha

No one's iller than me (wha?)
No one, no one is iller than me
No one is iller than me
It's Mr. Swifty from the 313...

Swift
I make rappers wanna turn into singers
I keep hoes lickin' they fingers
Bring this competition and face this meanin'
Got your whole crew doing subpeonas
Hell nah you ain't seen a crew genius
Murder whoever's between us, pack your heaters
Keep it close, you can't beat us
While your whole crew treat us like G's, you best believe this
I done made quadrapalegics outta these non-rappin' rejects
While the whole world ejects your tape, it ain't no secret
That your shit sounds fake, you can't stop it my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
I'm like Two-Face, I'm painful to rappers then you can tell
From these shells, how I gotta bend 'em like route canals
I erase all trails, somethin' farther from gettin' bail
Makes you wanna kill an emcee yourself, you might as well
Be within a 25 to life sentence, on linkin' trials
Horrified, and keep on frontin', repentin' and lose they bowels
Everything is foul when Swift's around, vacate now
Niggas dumb enough to try to front and escape, how?
I'm gonna take this 'gnac and drink it straight wild
Niggas steady fallin' in my face like milk crates, BLAAAOW!

It's Swifty from the 313
Like I said no one is iller than me, unnhh!

Fuzz
Me and Eminem and Mike
Drivin' down Van Dyke
Get my dick sucked late at night by a fuckin' transvestite
Still on probation for stranglin' my boy Jason
Should be takin' my medication, it's 9 to 10 I'm facin'
Last week this old man I had to blast
'Cause he tried to help me out when my car was out of gas
Ripped this old lady, hung her neck by a hook
Didn't realize it was my grandmother till I checked her pocketbook
Fuckin' with the white boys got me back on crack
Better explain where the hell your TVs and VCRs is at
I done lost 100 pounds, I ain't been eatin' like I should
This wounded dog in the street is sure lookin' good!
Rob this little boy in his fuckin' paper route
Throwin' bottles at day care centers and yell "EVERYBODY GET OUT"!
My girl beat my ass and shot me in the back with a 2-piece
'Cause she found out I was havin' an affair with her 10-year old niece

No one, no one's iller than me
It's Bizarre Kid straight from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Bizarre Kid straight from the 313

Eminem
Nobody better test me, 'cause I don't wanna get messy
Especially when I step inside this bitch, dick freshly
New Lugz, give the crew hugs, guzzle two mugs
Before I do drugs that make me throw up like flu bugs
True thugs, rugged unshaven messy scrubs
Whippin' 40-bottles like the fuckin' Pepsi clubs
Down a fifth, crack open a six
I'm on my seventh 8-ball, now I gotta take a piss
I'm hollerin' at these hoes that got boyfriends
Who gives a fuck who they was
I'm always takin' someone else's girl like Cool J does
They probably don't be packin' anyways, do they Fuzz?
We walked up, stomped they asses and blew they buzz
Mics get sandblasted
Stab your abdomen with a hand crafted pocketknife and spill your antacid
Sprayed your motherfuckin' crib up when I ran past it
Fuckin' felon, headed to hell in a handbasket
Talkin' shit will get you, your girl and your man blasted
Kidnapped and slapped in a van wrapped in Saran plastic
Get your damn ass kicked, by these fantastic
Furious four motherfuckers
Flashin' in front of your face without the Grand Masters

Slim Shady, ain't nobody iller than me

Fuzz
I run shit like an ass with legs
Massive lead to leave your cabbage red
Similar to your ass in a casket dead
Drastic spread of acid heads
Come to abort you like a bastard egg
That trash you said got you standin' on plastic legs
Ask the feds from past the edge
Rockin' the most classic threads
Flashin' bread, roll down the window
Bitch you got some fantastic legs, you can get till that ass get red
You can get till that ass get red
Bizarre you get him and him, Swift you get him and him
I'll get him and him, leave the other two for my nigga Eminem
Never writer's block, I block writers
My block's tighter, ante up and get your top fighters
Got fired for jumpin' the counter with a mop stick
Some bitch ran up screamin' GET THE COPS QUICK!
And got drop kicked, now she screamin' "Stop it..."
Got clips to stop shit, rock shit and grab this hot shit
Wherever you shop bitch, Fuzz Scooter '97 crop pick
Sick a-y'all niggaz lookin' at me like I got tits
I shoot a rocket through your optic
You niggaz still don't know the top pick?
I got bricks, lose my foot in your ass
And have you shittin' socks bitch!
We rock shit, leave your fuckin' knot split
Grab the green from Al by showin' him hot grits
(No one...)

Ain't nobody iller than me

Bizarre
It's the Mr. Fuzzy from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Eminem and Swift from the 313
No one, no one is iller than me
It's Fuzz and Buzz-arre from the 313

You have now witnessed 4 ill emcees!
From the home of potholes and trash
We'll lyrically blast...


All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

Left the keys in the van, with a Gat in each hand
Went up in Eastland and shot a policeman
Fuck a peace plan if a citizen bystands
This shit is in my hands, here's your life span
And for what your life's worth this money is twice that
Grab a couple grand and lay-up in Iceland
See I'm a nice man but money turned me to Satan
I'm thirsty for this green so bad I'm dehydratin'
Hurry up with the cash bitch, I got a ride waitin'
Shot a man twice in the back when he tried skatin'
I want the whole pie, I won't be denied nathan
Maybe I need my head inside straightened
Brain contemplatin', clean out the register
Dip before somebody catches ya
Or gets your description an' sketches ya
Then connects you as the prime suspect
But I ain't set to flee the scene of the crime just yet
'Cause I got a daughter to feed
And $200 ain't enough to water the seed
The best thing would be for me to leave Taco Bell an' hit up Chess King
And have the lady at the desk bring
Money from the safe in the back, stepped in wavin' the MAC
Cooperate and we can operate and save an attack
This bitch tried to escape in the jack
Grabbed her by the throat, it's Murder She Wrote
You barely heard a word as she choked
It wasn't nuttin' for her to be smoked
Then I slammed her on her back till her vertebrae broke
Just then the pigs bust in yellin' "Freeze!"
But I'm already wanted for sellin' ki's
And a bunch of other felonies from A to Z like spellin' bees
So before I dropped to the ground and fell on knees
I bust shots, they bust back
Hit me square in the chest, I wasn't wearin' a vest...

All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

Left the house, pullin' out the drive, backin' out
(?) Backin' out, this lady's Jag started blackin' out
Pulled the MAC-10 out and stuck it in her face
Shut ya yackin' mouth before I blow the brain from out the back ya scalp
Drug her by her hair, smacked her up
Thinkin' fuck it, mug her while you're there, jacked her up
Stole her car, made a profit
Grabbed a tape from out the deck and offed it out the window
Like the girl on Set It Off did
Jetted off kid, stole the whip, now I'm a criminal
Drove it through somebody's yard, dove into they swimmin' pool
Climbed out and collapsed on the patio
I made it out alive but I'm injured badly though
Parents screamin', "Johnny, go in and call the police.
Tell 'em there's a crazy man disturbing all of the peace!"
Tried to stall him at least long enough to let me leap up
Run in they crib and at least leave with some little cheap stuff
Actin' like they never seen nobody hit a (?) before
Smashed the window, grabbed the Nintendo 64
When they sell out in stores the price triples
I ran up the block jumpin' kids on tricycles
And collided with an 80-year old lady with groceries
There goes the cheese, eggs, milk and Post Toasties
Stood up and started to see stars
Too many siren sounds, it seemed like a thousand police cars
Barely escaped, must o' been some dumb-luck
Jumped up and climbed the back of a movin' dump truck
But I think somebody seen me maybe
Plus I lost the damn Nintendo and I must o' dropped the Beanie Baby
Fuck it I give up, I'm surrounded in blue suits
Came out with a white flag hollerin' "Truce, truce!" (Don't shoot!)
Surrendered my weapon to cops.
"Wasn't me! It was the gangsta rap and the peppermint Schnopps."

All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Makes it too late for cops in tryin' to stop the crime rate
All I see is murder murder, my mind state
Murder, murder, murder, and kill, kill, kill!

(Scratches to fade out)


Life... by Marshall Mathers
What is life?
Life is like a big obstacle
Put in front of your optical to slow you down
And every time you think you gotten past it
It's gonna come back around and tackle you to the damn ground
What are friends?
Friends are people that you think are your friends
But they really your enemies, with secret indentities
And disguises, to hide they true colors
So just when you think you close enough to be brothers
They wanna come back and cut your throat when you ain't lookin'
What is money?
Money is what makes a man act funny
Money is the root of all evil
Money'll make them same friends come back around
Swearing that they was always down
What is life?
I'm tired of life
I'm tired of backstabbing ass snakes with friendly grins
I'm tired of committing so many sins
Tired of always giving in when this bottle of Henny wins
Tired of never having any ends
Tired of having skinny friends hooked on crack and mini-thins
I'm tired of this DJ playing YOUR shit when he spins
Tired of not having a deal
Tired of having to deal with the bullshit without grabbing the steel
Tired of drowning in my sorrow
Tired of having to borrow a dollar for gas to start my Monte Carlo
I'm tired of motherfuckers spraying shit and dartin off
I'm tired of jobs startin off at five fifty an hour
Then this boss wanders why I'm smartin off
I'm tired of being fired every time I fart and cough
Tired of having to work as a gas station clerk
For this jerk breathing down my neck driving me bezerk
I'm tired of using plastic silverware
Tired of working in Building Square
Tired of not being a millionaire

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery, and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand, I'd make the world suck my dick
Without a condom on, while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, because I'd still be out
Robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

I'm tired of being white trash, broke and always poor
Tired of taking pop bottles back to the party store
I'm tired of not having a phone
Tired of not having a home to have one in if I did have it on
Tired of not driving a BM
Tired of not working at GM, tired of wanting to be him
Tired of not sleeping without a Tylenol PM
Tired of not performing in a packed coliseum
Tired of not being on tour
Tired of fucking the same blonde whore after work
In the back of a Contour
I'm tired of faking knots with a stack of ones
Having a lack of funds and resorting back to guns
Tired of being stared at
I'm tired of wearing the same damn Nike Air hat
Tired of stepping in clubs wearing the same pair of Lugz
Tired of people saying they're tired of hearing me rap about drugs
Tired of other rappers who ain't bringin' half the skill as me
Saying they wasn't feeling me on "Nobody's As Ill As Me"
I'm tired of radio stations telling fibs
Tired of J-L-B saying "Where Hip-Hop Lives"

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery, and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand, I'd make the world suck my dick
Without a condom on, while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, because I'd still be out
Robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

You know what I'm saying?
I'm tired of all of this bullshit
Telling me to be positive
How'm I 'sposed to be positive when I don't see shit positive?
Know what I'm sayin'?
I rap about shit around me, shit I see
Know what I'm sayin'? Right now I'm tired of everything
Tired of all this player hating that's going on in my own city
Can't get no airplay, you know what I'm sayin'?
But hey, it's cool though, you know what I'm sayin'?
Just fed up wid it
That's my word y'all


Intro by Frogg

Whoa!
A get your hands in the air, and get to clappin 'em
And like, back and forth because ah
This is... what you thought it wasn't...
It beez... the brothers representin' the Dirty Dozen
I be the F-R-O the double G (coughing in background)
And check out the man he goes by the name of er...

Slim Shady, brain dead like Jim Brady
I'm a M80, you Lil' like that Kim lady.
I'm buzzin, Dirty Dozen, naughty rotten rhymer
Cursin at you players worse than Marty Schottenheimer.
You wacker than the motherfucker you bit your style from
You ain't go' sell two copies if you press a double album.
Admit it, fuck it, while we comin' out in the open
I'm doin' acid, crack, smack, coke and smokin' dope then;
My name is Marshall Mathers, I'm an alcoholic (Hi Marshall)
I have a disease and they don't know what to call it
Better hide your wallet 'cause I'm comin' up quick to strip your cash
Bought a ticket to your concert just to come and whip your ass
Bitch, I'm comin' out swingin', so fast it'll make your eyes spin
You gettin' knocked the fuck out like Mike Tyson
The Proof is in the puddin', just ask the Deshaun Holton
I'll slit your motherfuckin throat worse than Ron Goldman

So when you see me on your block with two glocks
Screamin "Fuck the World" like Tupac
I just don't give a fuck!
Talkin' that shit behind my back, dirty mackin
Tellin' your boys that I'm on crack
I just don't give a fuck!
So put my tape back on the rack
Go run and tell your friends my shit is wack
I just don't give a fuck!
But see me on the street and duck
Cause you gon' get stuck, stoned, and snuffed
'Cause I just don't give a fuck!

I'm Nicer than Pete, but I'm on a Serch to crush a Milkbone
I'm Everlasting, I melt Vanilla Ice like silicone
I'm ill enough to just straight up diss you for no reason
I'm colder than snow season when it's twenty below freezin
Flavor with no seasonin, this is the sneak preview
I'll diss your magazine and still won't get a weak review
I'll make your freak leave you, smell the Folgers crystals
This is a lyrical combat, gentlemen hold your pistols
But I form like Voltron and blast you with my shoulder missiles
Slim Shady, M&amp;M was the old initials (Bye-bye!)
Extortion, snortin, supportin abortion
Pathological liar, blowin' shit outta proportion
The looniest, zaniest, spontaneous, sporadic
Impulsive thinker, compulsive drinker, addict
Half animal, half man
Dumpin your dead body inside of a fuckin' trash can
With more holes than an Afghan

Somebody let me out this limousine (hey, let me out!)
I'm a caged demon, on stage screamin like Rage Against the Machine
I'm convinced I'm a fiend, shootin up while this record is spinnin
Clinically brain dead, I don't need a second opinion.
Fuck droppin' the jewel, I'm flippin the sacred treasure
I'll bite your motherfuckin style, just to make it fresher
I can't take the pressure, I'm sick of bitches
Sick of naggin bosses bitchin while I'm washin dishes
In school I never said much, too busy havin' a headrush
Doin' too much rush had my face flushed like red blush
Then I went to Jim Beam, that's when my face grayed
Went to gym in eighth grade, raped the women's swim team
Don't take me for a joke I'm no comedian
Too many mental problems got me snortin coke and smokin' weed again
I'm goin' up over the curb, drivin' on the median
Finally made it home, but I don't got the key to get in

Hey, fuck that!
Outsidaz...
Pace One...
Young Zee...


Jeff Bass
This is a public Service Announcement brought to you
In part, by Slim Shady

The views and events expressed here are totally fucked
And are not necessarily the views of anyone

However, the events and suggestions that appear
On this album are not to be taken lightly

Children should not partake in the listening
Of this album with laces in their shoes

Slim Shady is not responsible for your actions
Upon purchasing this album
You have agreed not to try this at home

Anything else?

Eminem
Yeah, Don't do drugs


Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(What?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(What?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady

(Ahem. Excuse me! Can I have the attention of the class for one second?)

Hi, kids! Do you like violence? (Yeah-yeah-yeah!)
Wanna see me stick Nine Inch Nails through each one of my eyelids? (Uh-huh!)
Wanna copy me and do exactly like I did? (Yeah yeah!)
Try 'cid and get fucked up worse than my life is? (Huh?)

My brain's dead weight, I'm tryin' to get my head straight
But I can't figure out which Spice Girl I want to impregnate (Umm...)
And Dr. Dre said, "Slim Shady you a basehead!"
Uh-uh! "Then why's your face red? Man, you wasted!"

Well, since age twelve, I've felt like I'm someone else
'Cause I hung my original self, from the top bunk with a belt
Got pissed off, and ripped Pamela Lee's tits off
And smacked her so hard, I knocked her clothes backwards like Kris Kross

I smoke a fat pound of grass, and fall on my ass
Faster than a fat bitch, who sat down too fast
C'mere slut! (Shady, wait a minute, that's my girl, dawg!)
I don't give a fuck, God sent me to piss the world off!

Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(What?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(What?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady

My English teacher wanted to flunk me in junior high
Thanks a lot, next semester I'll be thirty-five
I smacked him in his face with an eraser
Chased him with a stapler, stapled his nuts to a stack of paper (Ow-w-w-w!)

Walked in the strip club, had my jacket zipped up
Flashed the bartender, then stuck my dick in the tip cup
Extra-terrestrial, running over pedestrians
In a spaceship, while they're screamin' at me, "Let's just be friends!"

Ninety-nine percent of my life I was lied to
I just found out, my mom does more dope than I do (Damn!)
I told her I'd grow up to be a famous rapper
Make a record about doin' drugs and name it after her (Oh, thank you!)

You know you blew up when the women rush the stands
And try to touch your hands like some screamin' Usher fans (Ahh! Ahhhhh!)
This guy at White Castle asked for my autograph (Dude, can I get your autograph?)
So I signed it: 'Dear Dave, thanks for the support, asshole!'

Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady

Stop the tape! This kid needs to be locked away! (Get him!)
Dr. Dre, don't just stand there, operate!
I'm not ready to leave, it's too scary to die (Fuck that!)
I'll have to be carried inside the cemetery and buried alive (Huh, yup!)

Am I comin' or goin'? I can barely decide
I just drank a fifth of vodka, dare me to drive? (Go ahead)
All my life I was very deprived
I ain't had a woman in years, and my palms are too hairy to hide (Whoops!)

Clothes ripped like the Incredible Hulk (Hahh-too)
I spit when I talk, I'll fuck anything that walks (C'mere)
When I was little I used to get so hungry I would throw fits
How ya gonna breastfeed me, mom?! You ain't got no tits! (Waah, wahh!)

I lay awake and strap myself in the bed
Put a bulletproof vest on and shoot myself in the head (Bang!)
I'm steamin' mad, (Arrhh!) and by the way when you see my dad (Yeah?)
Tell him that I slit his throat, in this dream I had

Hi! My name is... (What?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(What?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Who?) My name is...
(Huh?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady
Hi! My name is... (Huh?) My name is...
(Who?) My name is... chika-chika, Slim Shady

As heard on: Curtain Call: The Hits

My English teacher wanted to have sex in junior high, the only problem was, my English teacher was a guy

Extra-terrestrial, killin' pedestrians, rapin' lesbians, while they screamin' "Let's just be friends!


Narrator
Meet Eddie, 23 years old.
Fed up with life and the way things are going, he decides to rob a liquor store.
(I can't take this no more. I can't take it no more, homes.)
But on his way in, he has a sudden change of heart.
And suddenly, his conscience comes into play.

Dr. Dre
Alright, stop! (Huh?) Now before you walk in the door
Of this liquor store and try to get money out the drawer
You'd better think of the consequence
(But who are you?) I'm your motherfuckin' conscience.

Eminem
That's nonsense.
Go in and gaffle the money and run to one of your aunt's cribs
And borrow a damn dress and one of her blonde wigs. (Can I borrow this?)
Tell her you need a place to stay, you'll be safe for days
If you shave your legs with Renee's razor blades

Dr. Dre
Yeah, but if it all goes through like it's supposed to
The whole neighborhood knows you and they'll expose you.
Think about it, before you walk in the door first.
Look at the store clerk, she's older then George Burns.

Eminem
Fuck that. Do that shit. Shoot that bitch.
Can you afford to blow this shit? Are you that rich?
Why you give a fuck if she dies? Are you that bitch?
Do you really think she gives a fuck if you have kids?

Dr. Dre
Man, don't do it. It's not worth it to risk it. (You're right.)
Not over this shit. (Stop!)
Drop the biscuit. (I will!)
Don't even listen to Slim, yo. He's bad for you.

Eminem
You know what, Dre? I don't like your attitude.

(It's all right, c'mon, just come in here for a minute.)
(Mmm, I don't know.)
(Look, baby.)
(Damn!)
(Look, it's gonna be all right, right?)
(Well, okay.)

Narrator
Meet Stan, 21 years old.
After meeting a young girl at a rave party,
Thing's start getting hot and heavy in an upstairs bedroom.
Once again, his conscience comes into play.

Eminem
Now listen to me: while you're kissin' her cheek
Smearin' her lipstick,
I slip this in her drink.
Now all you gotta do is nibble on this little bitch's earlobe...

Dr. Dre
Yo, this girl's only 15 years old.
You shouldn't take advantage of her, it's not fair.

Eminem
Yo, look at her bush. Does it got hair? (Uh-huh.)
Fuck this bitch right here on the spot bare
Till she passes out and she forgot how she got there.

Dr. Dre 
Man, ain't you ever seen that one movie Kids?

Eminem
No, but I seen the porno with Son Doobiest!

Dr. Dre
Shit, you wanna get hauled off to jail?

Eminem
Man, fuck that, hit that shit raw dawg and bail.

(Hee. It feels good to be home.)

Narrator
Meet Grady, a 29 year old construction worker.
After coming home from a hard day's work, 
He walks in the door of his trailer park home 
To find his wife in bed with another man.
(What the fuck?!)
(Grady!!)

Dr. Dre
Alright, calm down. Relax, start breathin'.

Eminem
Fuck that shit, you just caught this bitch cheatin'.
While you at work, she's with some dude, tryin' to get off?
Fuck slittin' her throat! Cut this bitch's head off!!

Dr. Dre
Wait, what if there's an explanation for this shit?

Eminem 
What? She tripped? Fell? Landed on his dick?

Dr. Dre
Alright, Shady.
Maybe he's right, Grady.
But think about the baby,
Before you get all crazy.

Eminem
Okay! Thought about it. Still wanna stab her?
Grab her by the throat, get your daughter and kidnap her
That's what I did. Be smart, don't be a retard. 
You gonna take advice from somebody who slapped Dee Barnes!?

Dr. Dre
What'd you say? 

Eminem 
What's wrong? Didn't think I'd remember?

Dr. Dre
Imma kill you, motherfucker! 

Eminem
Ah-ah, temper, temper!
Mr. Dre? Mr. N.W.A.? Mr. AK
Coming straight outta Compton, y'all better make way?
How in the fuck you gonna tell this man not to be violent?

Dr. Dre
'Cuz he don't need to go the same route that I went.
Been there, done that. 
Aw, fuck it, what am I sayin'?
Shoot 'em both, Grady, where's your gun at?
*gunshots*


Scalpel
(Here)
Sponge
(Here)
Wait, he's convulsing, he's convulsing
(Ah)
We're gonna have to shock him (Oh my, oh my God)
We're gonna have to shock him (Oh my God)

These are the results of a thousand electric volts
A neck with bolts, (Nurse we're losin' him, check the pulse)
A kid who refused to respect adults
Wore spectacles with taped frames and a freckled nose
A corny lookin' white boy, scrawny and always ornery
'Cause I was always sick of brawny bullies pickin' on me
And I might snap, one day just like that
I decided to strike back and flatten every tire on the bike rack
My first day in junior high, this kid said
"It's you and I, three o'clock sharp this afternoon you die"
I looked at my watch it was 1:20
(I already gave you my lunch money what more do you want from me?)
He said, "Don't try to run from me, you'll just make it worse"
My palms were sweaty, and I started to shake at first
Something told me, "Try to fake a stomach ache it works"
I screamed, "Ow, my appendix feels like they could burst
Teacher, teacher, quick I need a naked nurse"
(What's the matter?) I don't know, my leg, it hurts"
(Leg? I thought you said it was your tummy?)
Oh, I mean it is, but I also got a bum knee
(Mr. Mathers, the fun and games are over
And just for that stunt, you're gonna get some extra homework)
But don't you wanna give me after school detention?
(Nah, that bully wants to beat your ass and I'mma let him)

Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go they keep playin' my song

Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go they keep playin' my song
Brain damage

Way before my baby daughter Hailey
I was harassed daily by this fat kid named D'Angelo Bailey
An eighth grader who acted obnoxious, 'cause his father boxes
So everyday he'd shove me in the lockers
One day he came in the bathroom while I was pissin'
And had me in the position to beat me into submission
He banged my head against the urinal till he broke my nose
Soaked my clothes in blood, grabbed me and choked my throat
I tried to plead and tell him, "We shouldn't beef"
But he just wouldn't leave, he kept chokin' me and I couldn't breathe
He looked at me and said, "You gonna die honkey"
The principal walked in (What's going on in here?)
And started helpin' him stomp me
I made them think they beat me to death
Holdin' my breath for like five minutes before they finally left
Then I got up and ran to the janitor's storage booth
Kicked the door hinge loose and ripped out the four inch screws
Grabbed some sharp objects, brooms, and foreign tools
"This is for every time you took my orange juice
Or stole my seat in the lunchroom and drank my chocolate milk
Every time you tipped my tray and it dropped and spilt
I'm gettin' you back bully, now once and for good"
I cocked the broomstick back and swung hard as I could
And beat him over the head with it till I broke the wood
Knocked him down, stood on his chest with one foot
Made it home, later that same day
Started reading a comic and suddenly everything became gray
I couldn't even see what I was tryna to read
I went deaf and my left ear started to bleed
My mother started screamin', "What are you on, drugs?
Look at you, you're gettin blood all over my rug" (Sorry)
She beat me over the head with the remote control
Opened a hole, and my whole brain fell out of my skull
I picked it up and screamed, "Look bitch, what have you done?"
(Oh my God, I'm sorry son) Shut up you cunt
I said, "Fuck it," took it and stuck it back up in my head
Then I sewed it shut and put a couple of screws in my neck

Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go they keep playin' my song

Brain damage, ever since the day I was born
Drugs is what they used to say I was on
They say I never knew which way I was goin'
But everywhere I go they keep playin' my song
Brain damage

It's brain damage
I got brain damage
It's brain damage
It's probably brain damage
It's brain damage
Brain damage
I got brain damage
It's brain damage


Em, What's goin' on, this is Paul Rosenberg, your faithful attorney at law.
Listen, I listened to the rough copy of your album and uhh, you know I just gotta be honest with you.
Could you tone it down a little bit, because there's only so much I can explain.
Gimme a call.


Spoken:
Life; by Marshall Mathers.
What is life?
Life is like a big obstacle in front of your optical to slow you down, and every time you think you gotten past it, it's gonna come back around and tackle you to the damn ground.
What are friends?
Friends are people that you think are your friends, but they really your enemies with secret identities and disguises to hide they true colors.
So just when you think you close enough to be brothers, they wanna come back and cut your throat when you ain't lookin'.
What is money?
Money is what makes a man act funny.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money'll make them same friends come back around, swearing that they was always down!
What is life?
I'm tired of life!

I'm tired of backstabbing ass snakes with friendly grins
I'm tired of committing so many sins
Tired of always giving in when this bottle of Henny wins
Tired of never having any ends
Tired of having skinny friends hooked on crack and mini-thins
I'm tired of this DJ playing your shit when he spins
Tired of not having a deal
Tired of having to deal with the bullshit without grabbing the steel
Tired of drowning in my sorrow
Tired of having to borrow a dollar for gas to start my Monte Carlo
I'm tired of motherfuckers spraying shit and dartin' off
I'm tired of jobs startin' off at five fifty an hour
Then this boss wonders why I'm smartin' off
I'm tired of being fired every time I fart and cough
Tired of having to work as a gas station clerk
For this jerk breathing down my neck, driving me berserk
I'm tired of using plastic silverware
Tired of working in Building Square, tired of not being a millionaire

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand
I'd make the world suck my dick without a condom on while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, 'cause I'd still be out robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

I'm tired of being white trash: broke and always poor
Tired of taking pop bottles back to the party store
Tired of not having a phone
Tired of not having a home to have one in if I did have one on
Tired of not driving a BM
Tired of not working at GM, tired of wanting to be him
Tired of not sleeping without a Tylenol PM
Tired of not performing in a packed coliseum
Tired of not being on tour
Tired of fucking the same blonde whore after work in the back of a Contour
I'm tired of faking knots with a stack of ones
Having a lack of funds and resorting back to guns
Tired of being stared at
Tired of wearing the same damn Nike Air hat
Tired of stepping in clubs wearing the same pair of Lugz
Tired of people saying they're tired of hearing me rap about drugs
Tired of other rappers who ain't bringin' half the skill as me
Saying they wasn't feeling me on "Nobody's As Ill As Me"
I'm tired of radio stations telling fibs
Tired of JLB saying "Where Hip-Hop Lives"

But if I had a million dollars
I'd buy a damn brewery and turn the planet into alcoholics
If I had a magic wand
I'd make the world suck my dick without a condom on while I'm on the john
If I had a million bucks
It wouldn't be enough, 'cause I'd still be out robbing armored trucks
If I had one wish
I would ask for a big enough ass for the whole world to kiss

Spoken:
You know what I'm saying?
I'm tired of all of this bullshit!
Telling me to be positive?
How'm I 'posed to be positive when I don't see shit positive?!
You know what I'm sayin'?
I rap about shit around me, shit I see, know what I'm sayin'?
Right now I'm tired of everything!
Tired of all this playa hating that's going on in my own city, can't get no airplay, you know what I'm sayin'?
But hey, it's cool though, you know what I'm sayin'?
Just fed up!
That's my word!


Just the two of us (Baby your dada loves you) (Hey)
Just the two of us
Just the two of us (And I'mma always be here for you) (Hey)
Just the two of us (No matter what happens)

Just the two of us (You're all I got in this world) 
Just the two of us (I would never give you up for nothin'
Just the two of us (Nobody in this world)
Just the two of us (Is ever gonna keep you from me, I love you)

C'mon Hai-Hai, we goin' to the beach
Grab a couple of toys and let dada strap you in the car seat
Oh where's mama? She's takin' a little nap in the trunk
Oh that smell (Whew), dada must've runned over a skunk
Now I know what you're thinkin', it's kind of late to go swimmin'
But you know your mama, she's one of those type of women
That do crazy things, and if she don't get her way, she'll throw a fit
Don't play with dada's toy knife, honey, let go of it (No)
And don't look so upset, why you actin' bashful?
Don't you want to help dada build a sand castle? (Yeah)
And mama said she wants to show you how far she can float
And don't worry about that little boo-boo on her throat
It's just a little scratch, it don't hurt
Her was eatin dinner while you were sweepin' and spilled ketchup on her shirt
Mama's messy isn't she? We'll let her wash off in the water
And me and you can play by ourselves, can't we?

Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)

See honey, there's a place called Heaven and a place called Hell
A place called prison and a place called jail
And dada's probably on his way to all of them except one
'Cause mama's got a new husband and a stepson
And you don't want a brother do ya? (Nah)
Maybe when you're old enough to understand a little better I'll explain it to ya
But for now we'll just say mama was real, real bad
She was bein' mean to dad and made him real, real mad
But I still feel sad that I put her on time-out
Sit back in your chair honey, quit tryin to climb out (Wah)
I told you it's okay Hai Hai, wanna ba-ba?
Take a night-night? Nana-boo, goo-goo ga-ga?
Her make poo-poo ca-ca? Dada change your dia-dee
Clean the baby up so her can take a nighty-nighty
Your dad'll wake her up as soon as we get to the water
'97 Bonnie and Clyde, me and my daughter

Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)

Wake up, sweepy head, we're here
Before we pway, we're gonna take mama for a wittle walk along the pier
Baby, don't cry, honey, don't get the wrong idea
Mama's too sweepy to hear you screaming in her ear (Mama?)
That's why you can't get her to wake
But don't worry, dada made a nice bed for mommy at the bottom of the lake
Here, you wanna help dada tie a rope around this rock? (Yeah)
We'll tie it to her footsie then we'll roll her off the dock
Ready now, here we go, on the count of free
One, two, free, whee
There goes mama, spwashin' in the water
No more fighting with dad, no more restraining order
No more step-dada, no more new brother
Blow her kisses bye-bye, tell mama you wuv her (Mommy?)
Now we'll go play in the sand, build a castle and junk
But first, just help dad with two more things out the trunk

Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (And when we ride)
Just the two of us, just the two of us (Just you and I)

Just the two of us (Just me and you baby)
Just the two of us (Is all we need in this world)
Just the two of us (Just me and you)
Just the two of us

Your dada will always be there for you
Your dada's always gonna love you, remember that
If you ever need me I'mma always be here for you
If you ever need anything, just ask
Dada will be right there
Your dada loves you
I love you baby


*Girl talking on phone*
Justin, its Zoe, Um Kellie did not have me call you
However I just listened to Eminem in her car
It is the most disgusting thing I have ever heard
In my entire life and I seriously want to call his
Fucking agent and tell them how fucking disgusting he is
It like makes me upset, I am now nauseous and I cant eat lunch
Goodbye


Spoken:
Ok, I'm going to attempt to drown myself.
You can try this at home.
You can be just like me.
Mic check 1 2, we recordin'?

I'm cancerous,
so when I diss you wouldn't wanna answer this
If you responded back with a battle rap you wrote for Canibus
I'll strangle you to death, then I'll choke you again
And break your fuckin' legs till your bones poke through your skin (Ahh)
You've beef with me, I'ma even the score equally:
Take you on Jerry Springer and beat your ass legally!
I get too blunted off of funny home grown
'Cause when I smoke out I hit the trees harder than Sonny Bono (Oh no!)
So if I said I never did drugs,
That would mean I lie and get fucked more that the president does!
Hillary Clinton tried to slap me and call me a pervert
I ripped her fucking tonsils out and fed her sherbet! (bitch!)
My nerves hurt, and lately I'm on edge
Grabbed Vanilla Ice and ripped out his blonde dreads (C'mere, motherfucker!)
Every girl I ever went out with is goin' les'
Follow me and do exactly what the song says:
Smoke weed, take pills, drop outta school, kill people and drink
Jump behind the wheel like it was still legal
I'm dumb enough to walk in a store and steal
So I'm dumb enough to ask a for date with Lauryn Hill
Some people only see that I'm white, ignoring skill
'Cause I stand out like a green hat with an orange bill
But I don't get pissed, y'all don't even see through the mist
How the fuck can I be white? I don't even exist!
I get a clean shave, bathe, go to a rave,
Die from an overdose and dig myself up out of my grave
My middle finger won't go down, how do I wave?
And this is how I'm supposed to teach kids how to behave?

Now follow me and do exactly what you see
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I slap women and eat shrooms, then O.D.
Now don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?

Me and Marcus Allen went over to see Nicole
When we heard a knock on the door (knock), must've been Ron Gold
Jumped behind the door, put the orgy on hold
Killed 'em both then smeared blood on the white Bronco (We did it!)
My mind won't work
If my spine don't jerk
I slapped Garth Brooks out of his rhinestone shirt
I'm not a player just an ill rhyme-sayer
That'll spray an aerosol can up at the ozone layer (*psssssssh*)
My rap style's warped
I'm runnin' out the morgue
With your dead grandmother's corpse to throw it on your porch (*scream*)
Jumped in a Chickenhawk cartoon with a cape on
And beat up Foghorn Leghorn
With an acorn
I'm about as normal as Norman Bates
with deformative traits
A premature birth that was four minutes late
"Mother, are you there? I love you!
I never meant to hit you over the head with that shovel!" (*evil laugh*)
Will someone please explain
To my brain
That I just severed a main vein
With a chainsaw and I'm in pain?
I take a breather and sigh, either I'm high
Or I'm nuts, 'cause if you ain't tiltin' this room, neither am I
So when you see your mom with a thermometer
Shoved in her ass, then it probably is obvious I got it on with her
'Cause when I drop this solo shit it's over with
I bought Cage's tape, opened it and dubbed over it

I came to the club drunk and with a fake ID
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I've been with 10 women who got HIV
Now don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I got genital warts and it burns when I pee
Don't you wanna grow up to be just like me?
I tie a rope around my penis and jump from a tree
You probably wanna grow up the just like me!


(Intro: excerpt from interview with Dash Snow)
I'll tell you what I don't believe in, can I do that?
All right, I don't believe in the, in laws, or the system by any means, whatsoever
I try not to obey them at any time
That's what I believe in, not believing in
(So what keeps you alive?)
Four big bottles of water a day, two packs of Marlboro Reds and
Uh, what keeps me alive? Shit, um
Music, I have to listen to music all day long
I say that keeps me going
I'm a pretty dark person, I've thought about ending it a million times
And I have to say that music keeps me here, by far, the main thing

(Kendrick Lamar)
Thank you
Sitting in the studio thinking about which mood would go
Right now, freestyle or write down, whatever
And still I come up clever, I just need to free my thoughts
And Lord knows that I know better, but I ain't perfect
I ain't seen too many churches or know them testament verses
You should either hear me now or go deaf
Or end up dead, die trying and know death
Might end up dead, swallow blood, swallow my breath
Fuck a funeral, just make sure you pay my music respect nigga
I mean that from the bottom of my heart
You see my art is all I have, and victory tastes sweet
Even when the enemy can throw salt
Still knock 'em out the park like a fucking tow car
Let bygones be bygones, but where I'm from
We buy guns and more guns to give to the young
I'm living the life of a nigga trapped nigga
Inside the system, all you envision is trap niggas
My uncle doing life inside prison, he wasn't wrapped too tight
He told me rap about life, not rap, niggas
That's why I'm shaking my head when you rap dissing
My stomach start turning, my nerves get to twitching
I start evaluating, then my final intuition
Is that you wishing a come up, would just come up
We used to beefing over turf, fuck beefing over a verse
Niggas dying, motherfuck a double entendre
And this is Compton, lions in the land of the triumph
Wrap Saran our defiance, ban our alliance
Put burners in the hands of the black man
One hood with twenty fo'-fo's like a cloned Kobe Bryant
You probably heard I wanna be heard and wonder who I am
You probably even listen to "Faith" and think I know Zion
But really I'm just caught in the loop of understanding the truth
Because it seem like it's always clashing with science
I got a big fear of flying
My future so bright I'd probably go blind before I blink twice, I ain't lying
I swear to God half of y'all just don't know Kendrick
The school of hard knocks, we was the first ones in attendance
You walking down the block, he got shot, you wouldn't know I witnessed
You just mind your bidness
You just turn your head, kneel down, and then tie your tennises
It's kinda scary ain't it
You can't act like no bitch, that only got Tyler Perry famous
Just let me explain this, why you pick up that stainless?
Cause your pops wasn't anxious to see you when you hated him
So much, you probably had your burner tucked in graduation
Said if you see him on them bleachers then you kill him, facing
Twenty-five to life with a murder charge
Your enemies was the prey, and now you pray to God
I pray these bars get farther than Compton
And if my record never break I still won't break my promise, I promise to keep it honest
Secret society, all we ask is trust
And all we lack is communication like service sucks
The people scared of annihilation when Kingdom Come
And I'm like, the Kendrick Lamar O.D. in less than a month
All right? Gotta keep it pushing
Can't let the government tell me how my future looking
I'm on Rosecrans and Central trying to duck the central bookings
If the fucking pigs get behind me then you know I'm bucking, never will I surrender
I've been a warrior when I came out of my mom's placenta
In the gutter lane like I'm Master Splinter
How splendid, I guess my project had did it
Got all these niggas approaching their mixtapes different
They said seven tracks, I said fifteen
Called it an EP, they said I'm tripping
But little did they know, I'm tryna change the rules
That we've been confined to, so the corporate won't make decisions
Uppity bitches, handling bidness
Killing our dreams, stealing our vision
Out in Haiti adolescents barely have a home
In L.A. everybody think they fucking on
Hop on Twitter, perpetrate, we doing big shit
Who we hanging with, and bragging about the iPhone
I swear to God, most y'all cats just don't know Kendrick
You barely know yourself, so I guess most of y'all should be offended
Ain't doing this for my health, I'm just trying to purchase my momma them businesses
Occupy my time with riches, justify my time, ambition's
Just to coincide, just to go inside, books we idolize while we living
Look the mastermind, took the master's mind, just the perfect time, just to mastermind
Just to master grind with precision, look the mastermind, took the... [coughs]

We would like to call this an appreciation tape
For those who recognized the Kendrick Lamar EP
For this is the Kendrick Lamar O.D.
Because of you, we are Overly Dedicated


(Chorus: Jhene Aiko)
Where are we going? Why are we slowing down?
Where are you going? We should be growing now

(Kendrick Lamar)
Smoke to it nigga, smoke to it nigga

(Kendrick Lamar)
That's what she said to me
That place I used to call home is just a bed to me
And we don't even sleep, neighbors can hear her weep
Meanwhile I'm in these streets with everybody
I'm trying to get it and she know they got me, I watch her feelings watch me
As they staring with the saddest eyes of loneliness
Look each other in the face and barely blink
I tried to make it right but the pen ran out of ink
So if my letters don't reach you, I hope these lyrics in sync

(Kendrick Lamar)
That's what it said to me
But that place I call ambition now dead to me
Gone and forgotten, I'm off track like Dale Earnhardt
My liver rotten, alcoholic tripping
Fucking bad bitches and they got bad intentions
Club night, guys and dolls
Balling out, but I'm bout to drop the ball
I'm calling out for help, my engineer called
Told me come to the studio, I wanna tell him nah

(Kendrick Lamar)
That's what he said to me
But that place we call Heaven unfair to me
Only a hundred and forty-four can go
Seven billion people on planet earth today
Is there something that I don't know?
I know to follow him, rather following people
Or follow vanity cause that means I'm following evil
Guess I'm following evil, I should follow cathedral
Blessings I need, but live like I don't need you

(Kendrick Lamar)
So in conclusion
We all seem to stumble, planning our own demise
Forgetting the big picture and making it wallet size
So to what's important in my life, I apologize
I promise to stay faithful, focused and sanctified
We all get distracted
The question is, would you bounce back or bounce backwards?
Would you not know how to act or take action? It's just a part of life
And if your vision's impaired, you probably lose it all tonight

(Jhene Aiko)
I'm trying to visualize how to get it right
But my vision's so blurry
Trying to slow it down, stay close to the ground
But we're always in a hurry now
And if I could make this world stand a little slower
Then I would, then we could grow a little closer
I think we're getting closer
I think we're getting closer


I remember, uh
All my uncles, Sir Smokers
On the landra, in front of our building
They was my heroes

This shit is so dope you might wanna be my crackhead
This shit is so dope you might wanna be my crackhead
Bad bitches, crackheads, street niggas, crackheads
This shit is so dope you might wanna be my crackhead

Uh, and that's scary to me
Dope beat, dope flow, vary to me
Especially when Sounwave is on his Ps
Nigga cue me in, I'm a Peruvian drug lord
Don't fast forward, I'ma serve you some +keys+
This is crack cocaine, I'm Kurt Cobain
And I bang like a C-R-I-P
P-R-I-U, high you, I'm an I-V
This shit is so dope you might wanna be my crack... stop
I said an I-V 'cause when I be
In the studio, high shot, a needle in your vein
Take it in vain or itch till your eyeballs pop
I'm cold on the cold turkey, I hate chickens
But I do fuck pretty birdies, where your girl at?
Over the Pyrex where my world at

Uh, and that's scary to me
Every listener is a strawberry to me
You pussies ain't shit but venereal disease
Disease on K-Dot? Uh uh, better wake up
A nightmare, I'm right there like a Siamese
Twin, when you motherfuckers gon' learn?
Curl up like Big Worm when I drop
Who fly? I'm a red eye with eyedrops
I BIG, I 'Pac, you Chris, I +Rock+
That's pookie hom', New Jack head-first with a cyclops
I'm the first one to do that, I bet you never knew that
Back like a tailbone, who you got to tell on?
If it ain't about me, about hoe
Or be about face if you ain't no higher, learn it
There's soda in the pot and the fire, burning

Uh, and it's scary to carry
A smooth-type flow like a drink of Merlot
That'll freak y'all out like a girl Virgo
When I turbo on any track it's a Reynolds wrap
And I rap like a nigga who invented rap, rapping heat
You could fall to defeat if you don't pay your tolls
Like the limbs on your feet, I suppose
This is bigger than life
This is probably everybody Illuminatis
Guess I'm the blood sacrifice
Of the party, I undress her like a Harley
Lights will flash, cars will crash
Smoke more junk while the junkies laugh
So my bad if I put you in rehab
You are reimbursed, put it on my, tab

(Kendrick Lamar - over chorus)
Aw dude, you about to fucking O.D. bro


"Gina, baby, I don't have no money, and I don't have no ends
Gina, I'm ass-out" [laughter]
"I'm going through something right now"
"I told you that"

(Kendrick Lamar)
Oh, what up hoe? Oh, what up?
I said, oh, what up hoe? Oh, what up?
I said, oh, what up hoe? Oh, what up?
Well all right

(Chorus 2X: Kendrick Lamar)
I'm going through something with life
Where pussy and Patron make you feel all right
Pussy and Patron make you feel all right
Pussy and Patron, that's some great advice

(Kendrick Lamar)
Welcome to my diary, stressing got me gray hairs
Something to inspire me, rather than society's
Woes, let me go, let me shine a lil' bit love
I want diamonds too, Ronnie on Player's Club
I used to have a nine-to-five, fresh out of school, that was '05
That bitch was racist, got me fired, they rushed us then, I had no job
Pushing in my mama van, stop for gas on Rosecrans
Trust me, these niggas rushed me for something my cousin probably did
Guilty by association, story of my life nigga!
You gon' make me flip, then split yo' shit, judge give me life nigga!
Pain since my grandma's death, uncle killed at Louie's Burgers
Hold my tears, I tried my best, let it go, trench my pullover
Cycles of a starving artist tryna go beyond the margin-margin
Maintaining my modest-modest as I dream
So while I go through all-this-all-this, bullshit what you call it
Life itself, I know it helps, let me scroll through my Blackberry ("hey what's up daddy?")

(Beat switches up)

"So what you wish me over here for?
How was your day?
Are you tipsy?"
Mhmm

(Kendrick Lamar - screwed vocals)
All I need in this lifetime, pussy and Patron
Give me that, won't you give that? Once again it's on
Bitch I'm swagged up, hoes bopping when I'm off that Screw
Coming down clean, tell your baby mama what it do
Where your friends at? I got long dick, what it is
Go on poke it out, situate your little positives
How I live? Big shot, on my grind, all ready
I'ma lay it down like a carpenter when you let me
When you let me, when you let me...

(Kendrick Lamar - singing)
Give me that funk, that sweet, that nasty
That good shit stuff
I can't get enough
If I offend you, blame it on the liquor babe
Give me that funk, that sweet, that nasty
That good shit stuff
I can't get enough
If I offend you...

(Kendrick Lamar)
Uh, I wrote this song when Dave drove home
And caught that flat in the [?] flats
And it made me think when another car blinked
To change locations where we at
We often get lost in the ever-hard bottle
When attempt to ignore pain, problem and sorrow
Just for a minute, then back to the bullshit
Your car now due and you bout to get evicted
Two drugs surely, Patron, pussy, make it feel all right
But once it's empty and the bitch leave, then it's back to life
You can't run from it, gotta run to it nigga
The antidote wouldn't last and you knew it nigga
But still you proceed to dive deep, ask what's her zodiac sign

(Ab-Soul)
Okay, welcome to my diary, hmm, where should I begin?
Finna get a swisher and fill it with at least a gram
Crackers watch my every step, man I hate to work for them
One time I tried to work for me, but that shit didn't work for me
And here I am, stressing, questioning my direction man
What to do? Nothing's moving, traffic jam, wiggle through it
Pop the cork and take the fluid, bust that pussy open
Bust that pussy open, bust that pussy open
'Soul, balls deep, ya dig?
Retrieve relief, ya dig?
Let's kill a bottle of tequila
And lie butt-naked telling the truth, would ya?
What's up? I had a long day and I really want to fuck
Take a double shot to the face and forget about my whole day
Cause all I've been thinking the whole day...

(Kendrick Lamar - screwed vocals)
All I need in this lifetime, pussy and Patron
Give me that, won't you give that? Once again it's on
Bitch I'm swagged up, hoes bopping when I'm off that Screw
Coming down clean, tell your baby mama what it do
Where your friends at? I got long dick, what it is
Go on poke it out, situate your little positives
How I live? Big shot, on my grind, all ready
I'ma lay it down like a carpenter when you let me
When you let me, when you let me...


She look better than Beyonce, Alicia Keys, Halle Berry, Miss Jolie
Where's she from? No I.D., that girl's an alien
And if I die before I wake, I pray that I'm in outer space
U-F-O fly away
So let's go-go-go-go, let's go-go-go-go
Let's go-go-go-go, let's go, let's go

(Kendrick Lamar)
Uh, she got me going, I'm all in
Fifty stories, I'm falling
Where you been? Is it planet Mars?
Far beyond the stars? Are you a Martian?
You're unfamiliar, but still I feel ya
Energy is sending me toward the ceiling
I'm high now, are you up there?
If you was, I would climb every other stair
I gotta stare, I mean wow
And I'm wowed, no one compares
A one-on-one, you must have won
Every pageant in America when you was young
Lips, hips, hair drip down her back crazy
Body frame crazy, insane, crazy
The only girl that can make time, then make me stop

(Kendrick Lamar)
Uh, so now we on, so now we gone
Living in the city of the unknown
I show her off, I stunt with her
We do it sweet, they look bitter
Look at her get up, I hear 'em say
But why him? I hear 'em hate
I laugh at it, rather than jab at it
Then continue eternal life as a crack addict
'Cause I'm addicted, and you the drug
Cold turkey? No sir
Gotta be an odyssey from Heaven way above
You definite, not probably, I gotta give it up
Lips, hips, hair drip down her back crazy
Body frame crazy, insane, crazy
The only girl that can make time, then make me stop

(Kendrick Lamar)
You something different
I'm glad I found you
So pretty
I'll never do anything to hurt you


(Female crying)

(Kendrick Lamar)
Uh, yeah [3X]
Uh
We hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people...
I'm inspired, so get inspired

And so he said, why you gotta be so kind-hearted?
Why you couldn't be a con-artist? Why you couldn't
Why you couldn't be mischievous or just a lil' devious
The moment that we first started?
Why you never ask for nothing, just a lil' time?
Why you let me use yours 'cause I don't got mines?
Why you always lift me up when I'm completely giving up?
Or when niggas holler what's up, you give a dry response?
Why you giving me your last, knowing you ain't got it?
Why you always buy me something when you going shopping?
Why you tell me that you love me? Why you always thinking of me?
Want my company rather than going club hopping
Why you treating my momma like she your momma too?
Why you making promises that you'll forever do?
Whatever just to make me happy, wanting us to have a family
These are exactly the reasons why I cheat on you, sometimes

(Chorus: Kendrick Lamar (Javonte))
We hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
Hurt people that love us, love people that hurt us
(Sometimes I, sometimes I feel we share
Nothing in common, it ain't fair
But where do we seem to fall?
Where do we seem to fall?
Tender love and care, once upon a time
Once upon a time, we was there)

(Kendrick Lamar)
And so she said, why you gotta be so mean to me?
Why you don't know what you mean to me?
Why you always playing games? Why I feel like you ashamed
Out in public, curse me out and make a scenery?
Why you got other bitches rolling their eyes at me?
Why text messages popping up saying hi daddy?
Why you treat me like I'm nothing? Why you always at a function?
I be wanting to go out but you don't never ask me
Why you slip and say her name when we having sex?
Why you always assuming that I still love my ex?
Every time we get into it, I'm the one that's feeling stupid
You don't need me, you gon' leave me, that's your favorite threat
Why you never know how it feel to be lonely?
Why I feel I'm the last option after your homies?
Why you always gotta know that I will never let you go
Even though you get violent and put your hands on me? Sometimes

(Outro: Lamont Carey "She Says She Loves Me")
She says she loves me, she says she loves me
So she clings to me even when I want to be left alone
But she's beautiful
Like sometimes when I have things on my mind, she's the perfect person to listen
And she only gives advice, she says when I give her a cue
She says she loves me
Like when I wake up in the morning
She's sitting on the edge of the bed with a plate of food, wanting to feed me
She says she needs me, she says she loves me
Or like when I'm stepping out of the shower
She's standing there with the towel, wanting to, wanting to dry me off
She says, she says she loves me
So instead of admitting that she has made another mistake
She says, she says she loves me
And I don't know about love


(Female)
I used to want to be like Michael Jordan
Figured I would hit the NBA and make me a fortune

(Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar)
Uh, every time I'm in my city I be hacking like my shit don't stink
Used to clean my Rollie chain with alcohol in the sink
Riding round with niggas that I grew up with since McNair
Bumping "Me Against the World", hello world, Kendrick here
And I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
Wayne told me that, and that's just how it goes
Michael Jordan
Bounce-bounce hoe, bounce-bounce

(Kendrick Lamar)
This shit make a nigga wanna get some bread or bust a head
Or fuck my enemy's bitch, acting bad and getting rich
Pull up on them twenty-sixes, I'm a vanity slave
I'm a sinner, Jesus Christ, please forgive me for my ways
I don't know why your bitch wanna fuck me
And I don't know why you fuck niggas can't see
I'm a Comp-town representer, concrete backflipper
A.K.A. that nigga, don't worry
I don't know why your bitch wanna fuck me
And I don't know why you fuck niggas can't see
This is HiiiPoWeR, since the Eddie Bower I've been popular
I'm popping now, every other hour, paparazzi come
You jocking her, let her be a hoe, why you stopping though?
We stopping the traffic, what you know 'bout them hockey pucks?
Skating on 'em, why you hating on 'em? You should learn from 'em
See too many of y'all getting money, know my turn coming
I don't know why your bitch wanna fuck me
And I don't know why... "Hey, wait a minute motherfucker"

(Chorus 2: Kendrick Lamar)
Every time I'm in my city I be feeling like my shit don't stink
Used to clean my Rollie chain with alcohol in the sink
Riding round with niggas that I grew up with since McNair
Bumping "Me Against the World", hello world, Kendrick here
And I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
Wayne told me that, and that's just how it goes
Michael Jordan bitch, Michael Jordan bitch
Michael Jordan bitch, Michael Jordan bitch
That means I'm too/two much for these niggas, I'm three much for these hoes
Wayne told me that, and that's just how it goes

(Kendrick Lamar)
Man, the game chose me, what am I to do?
Only thing I did wrong was make it possible
I diddy bop and make them titties pop
Out there on my bumper like a city cop
Walking down to Fred Segal, put my girl on it
Ass so fat, probably sit the world on it
Ay, pussy crazy, pussy crazy
You fuck niggas, you pussies crazy
Man, I know I can't tell you 'bout the world homie
But I know I can tell you bout your girl homie
Her pussy's crazy, her pussy crazy
I fucked nigga, I know you hate me
I know they pay me, too much of attention
Bring my name up, it gotta be mentioned
I need me an engine that go real fast
Call it "Haul of Fame", once it haul ass
Give me tall glass, Coconut Ciroc
Please no soda pop, I make my solo pop
Life's a bitch, her pussy crazy
But I make that pussy pay me

(Schoolboy Q)
I remember tripping, walking through the set like my Glock don't think
Grandma in the kitchen, neck bones in the sink
I don't know why your bitch wanna fuck me
And I don't why you sucker niggas can't see
I'm from Hoover mayne, high as Supermayne, shit you Lois Lane
You pussy mayne with the pussy game, shit we off the chain
We popping ay, fortune, not the fame, shit you backwards mayne
You chasing hoes, we replacing those, bag and pass them hoes
Your broad that chose, yes she moving on, yep we do it wrong
We fuck the homes, fuck the center home, marijuana strong
You know I'm gone, turn my swagger on, am I swagged enough?
My paper long, yep you left alone, you gets none fucks
Leaning off the Actavis, passing blunts round and round
Told Mary/merry was a (go), so we passed her (round) and (round)
Your bitch texted me, wants it now, so I had to knock her down
Work her bouncing on my balls, slinging dick up from the mouth
You let it slide, I hit home-runs, clean her dugout till I'm done
I can be her number two and you can be her number one
Her pussy's crazy, her pussy's crazy
You fuck niggas


Lord forgive me

Kill him where he stand or stand over him shake his hand
Then jump back in that mini van, double back to his block
And blam I ain't backing down for nothing
I'm a back 'em down like Shaq with this black 2-2-3 in my hand
Better pray that this chopper jam, like a radio single, man
Police radio signals sayin' that a 187 land on your corner,
Coroners comfort your mama, mama he's dead,
The next morning high toasted up with my homies
We drink and smoke marijuana, want us to change our ways? Uh-huh
You see this game we play come from uncles that raised me in Compton
Ask me what I have accomplished
I don't know I don't have conscience
I just load up and start dumpin' on enemies I'm head hunting
No sympathy, ain't no love when you in these streets just get something
Protect ya neck 'cause they comin' for set respects split your onion
Then chop your deck your head tumblin' like gymnastics
Cause ignorance is bliss

This the hardest shit you've heard from LA this far
And I'm this far, from a discharge but never will I dish off
We all tryna ball and when I got the rock I'll dish off
Until the day I pistol whip you posers till y'all pissed off
Then peel off, in a hooptie
Come back and make these niggas wanna shoot me
And they bitches wanna salute me or seduce me
Indubitably I'm too street
Indubitably I'm a do me
Better than your bitch would
But you niggas too weak, but just give me 2 weeks
And I'm good
I'll make an album that'll put a smile on Malcolm
Make Martin Luther tell God I'm the future for Heaven's talent
No tarot card reading I'm foreseeing you niggas vanish
Not only from the rap game, I'm including the planet
Cats so watered down clowns can sink Titanic
Tie titanium around their neck and watch 'em panic
Give me respect, dammit, or get damaged
Die young, corpse identified by your parents
Apparently you a parrot
Mocking me and my blueprint
But I won't share it just make you cop it then call you a sheriff
Stop it, I'm hearin' the comments
The critics are calling me conscious
But truthfully, every shooter be callin' me Compton
So truthfully, only calling me Kweli and Common?
Proves, that ignorance is bliss

And this still the hardest shit you've heard from LA this far
And I'm this far, from a discharge but never will I dish off
This my world, I grab the universe then play kickball
And they wonder why these California earthquakes hit so hard
I'm so-Cal, you so called
Rappers need to go call
Ghostbusters to shoot busters I'm Casper when I go off
I show up, to show out to show off
You a hundred percent behind me
And if you hard then wreck your car and walk up to my crime scene
I remember being 17 wishing someone would sign me
Now the only way these labels get me back is when they rewind me
Backin' down boggins
Backin' down bitches
We gon' flip her once she off that blue dolphin
You gon' tip her
Cause ignorance is bliss
And Willy B I'm a fool on yo beats, I bleed out the speaker
As the speaker that spoke when they done speak


(Kendrick Lamar)
This is me thinking at 4:43 AM, June 6

Sometimes I wanna say fuck rapping, I need money now
Like should I start trapping? If what I write down
Don't connect this very moment, then I'm on it, no question
In the streets my niggas is well connected, let's see
Do I cop a pound of kush, Promethazine or push some E?
Oxycontin have laying on soft cotton when I sleep?
This is deep as the abyss, I'm not just rhyming on the beat
I be in spots chopping the rocks like flintstone feet
This is me frustrated, battling my own evils
Finna saddle up that work, across Ohio in a Geo
Or should I sell my music .zip to buy your zip
And hope one day it flourish to a kilo, track record of a hustler
Rather records on the needle, making music
Clocking fast bank like a shot from Patrick Ewing
My nigga, what you doing on these corners with me?
"I thought you had a show?" Well I guess my nigga, I didn't
I'm tryna get this dough and easy money sounds tempting
Especially when your homies pushing V8 hinges
Twenty-two on twenty-sixes, Range Rovers rolling up
Three-fifty for an ounce of fire, I hope I got enough
This industry calling my bluff, I need a new solution
Curve-serving, know I might be in your store boosting
Two-elevens with MAC-11s like fuck Hip Hop
Don't wanna be Pun, don't wanna be B.I.G., don't wanna be 'Pac
Just give me your funds, A.K.A. everything that you got
Or everything getting shot, for nothing
Leave you in shock, coughing up blood and mumbling
Watch, the plans of a young man sponsor
Moving grams like relocating your mom's momma
Then expand to the Hoover dam, water
Sherm, contraband, they yearn for the butt-naked
Fuck a verse, verses get let off in thirty minutes, six seconds
I disperse to the world of unruly, where I put the mic down
And pick up a sack and a toolie, if you knew me
You'll know I always had a passion for riddle when writing
But lately I've been thinking bout taking chances to brighten
My future financially, so please don't be mad at me
I gotta do what I gotta do, no shit
So I tell my nigga front me, let me put it on the strip
Then give it back when I think about the consequence, shit

(BJ the Chicago Kid)
There are times, when you need someone
I will be by your side
Oh darling, cause there is a light that shines
Special for you, and me yeah
I-take-I-take-take my chances-chances-chances
Before they pass, they pass, they pass
Pass me by, oh darling
You've got to look at the other side

(Kendrick Lamar)
R.O.T.C., or Right On Time Conscience


(Kendrick Lamar)
One time
Reporting live, Compton, California

Have you ever felt like, like you never get life?
Like you never get right? Sort of like a black sheep
Back down, backing out your dreams like some bad sleep
Chasing for the win but you never win the track meet
Oh, what a cold world for a broke nigga, it's bitter
And life's a bitch, don't hit women so I bit her
I struck enough pain, let her know I wasn't playing
I was so (Sincere) like Nas' first name
And back, they'd tell me, it's very difficult to see twenty-five
And if I survive I probably wouldn't sell it
My opportunities are low because my brown complexion floats
In the ghetto, rather in some heals like Giuseppe's
They want me unemployed, until I hit the streets
For filling voids of broke D-boys selling weed
Fucking up my prestige, till I live with the blues
B.B. King or the neighbors of Snoop

(Chorus: Kendrick Lamar (Ash Riser) {uncredited female})
That's why I'm in the club like fuck it though
They say it's only one life, life, life
And if you say I can't live comfortable
I'ma tell you that's a lie, lie, lie
So while I hold this bottle of Ciroc with a hand full of ass
Celebrate the very day that I get past
(Through the barbed wire)
{We are, we are fighters
We are, we are true
Through the, through barbed wires
We will, will break through}
So while I hold this bottle of Ciroc with a hand full of ass
Celebrate the very day that I get past
(Through the barbed wire)

(Kendrick Lamar)
Have you ever felt like, like you never get life?
Like you never did right? Sort of like a black sheep
Tryna get away from the world stereotype
Barbed wire got a barricade on your destiny
She desperately in need of some inspiration, see what the people saying
She gon' have a baby, then flee from her education
At the age of sixteen, credit card scam schemes
See a scar on her eye, boyfriend brutality
She will never get by, no how, no way
Welfare recipient, property of the state
Housing, Section 8, corner store, prostitute
The owner bout to prosecute, the niggas tell her that she cute
Hoodrat trashy, six baby daddies
And this baby daddy is new to the family
Chilling in pajamies, waiting on the first
Fast-forward, spilling drinks on her fur

(Chorus: Kendrick Lamar (Ash Riser) {uncredited female})
That's why she in the club like fuck it though
They say it's only one life, life, life
And if you say she can't live comfortable
She gon' tell you that's a lie, lie, lie
So while she up in V.I.P. pouring Merlot in her glass
Celebrate the very day that she get past
(Through the barbed wire)
{We are, we are fighters
We are, we are true
Through the, through barbed wires
We will, will break through}
So while she up in V.I.P. pouring Merlot in her glass
Celebrate the very day that she get past
(Through the barbed wire)

(Kendrick Lamar)
Have you ever felt like you finally got life?
You finally got right? No longer a black sheep
Living off your (dreams) like Christina uh-Milian in the front seat
Of a convertible, eloping to get married
What a feeling of overcoming the odds
It's like you just hit the lottery, my God
There must be a God, cause golly
You done made it through the fight while squabbling, Ali
Now your lifestyle's looking up and you escaped the crooked cops
And you ain't have to kill a nigga just to make a couple bucks
And she ain't have to go and fuck on everybody for a dollar
Making good decisions, got an independent business mind
And both of y'all are steady grinding, doing it the legal way
Just tryna make a decent pay on every second of the day
But they won't give you the credit, disses out they mouth
You must have joined the Illuminati just to ball out

(Chorus: Kendrick Lamar (Ash Riser))
In the club like fuck it though
They say it's only one life, life, life
And if you say they can't live comfortable
They gon' tell you that's a lie, lie, lie
So even if you overcame doubt and your living ain't bad
Know it's some barbed wire that's always in your path
(Through the barbed wire)

(Kendrick Lamar)
Just laugh, then everybody say

(Ash Riser)
'Cause I won't get caught again
And I'm here to start the trend
You can't catch me if you try
Disappear into the night, and I'm gone

"So you made it past all the barbed wires?"
Just one more left [gun shot]


The hardest thing for me to do
Is to get you, to know me, within sixteen bars
That's the hardest thing

Who is K. Dot? A young nigga from Compton
On the curb writing raps next to a gun shot
On the corners where the gangsters and the killers dwell
The fraudulent tender scars that get unveiled
Everyone I knew was either crip or piru
Cousins in elementary, relatives in high school
With that being said, each one of their rivals
Was aiming something at my head, I needed survival
Got jumped, got jacked, shot at, shot back
And I don't even push a line, I'm just tryna push these rhymes
In the midst of staying neutral and discrete
My momma said you're judged by the company you keep
But what you can consider, that if it goes down
They'll kill you if you kill me, it gets deep nigga
So if you ask what I'm doing
I'm tryna duck the influence of my city that's blue-and,.. real talk, and

This is why they fuck with me (real talk nigga, believe it)
This is why they fuck with me (do what I do, y'know?)
I'm no gangster, no killer, I'm just your average Joe (know that)
But one thing you should consider, I'm the realest you know

I was walking from Centennial
When an unidentified vehicle rolled up, and I was like hold up
Where you from? "How-bang"
Where you stay? "Westside", that's a piru gang to be exact
Well aware they had blue across they hat
Dropped backpack and ran inside of the cul-de-sac
Shots rang out, hoping to God I wasn't wet
Crossed to cross Rosecrans and ran inside of the yet
Chirped the homies on the hot ninety-five, they said they already knew
What happened, and meet 'em outside the garage
Never seen that many guns in my life
I was paranoid like a fiend in the night, but needed revenge
Grabbed the nine-ball, opened up the door, then got in
Somebody said fall back, we gon' make these niggas suffer
You my brother like a frat, and that's just to remind you
Thought about that so long I had failed my finals, fuck, but

This is why they fuck with me (I told you nigga)
This is why they fuck with me (you fake nigga)
I'm no gangster, no killer, I'm just your average Joe (you fake)
But one thing you should consider, I'm the realest you know

I don't do black music, I don't do white music
I do everyday life music
Give 'em cuts like a nigga pierced a knife through it
You say you through, but I've been through it, now that's cold
And this is for my county building children
In Hub City on hubcaps, no power-steering
I use perseverance in this mad city
Where the niggas drink Remy and hold semis for cutthroats
Bernie Mac died, it's no joke
Don't ask why if you don't know about these killers and thieves
Seven grams of weed, you smoke that, but I'm high off life
I could fall out the sky like twice
And land in the land of the AKs
And the minivans where the fan never on
'Cause it's hotter than a lunatic's underarms in a straitjacket
In other words, we get it cracking, but I keep it cool, y'know?

This is why they fuck with me [laughs]
This is why they fuck with me (real talk)
I'm no gangster, no killer, I'm just your average Joe (come on)
But one thing you should consider, I'm the realest you know

So there you have it
But I'm a leave you with this
An OG once told me
A real gangster is either dead or in jail
Or behind the scenes getting real money
I'm gone


H.O.C., H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.
H.O.C., H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.
H.O.C.

Everybody know I spit that hunk of shit
Shit that make you duck for cover shit
Shit that make you hop out your seat and slap your mother shit
Especially when Drop drop the beat
I drop jewels like my nuts dropped out of my briefs
Jump in the booth, then shatter every rapper's dream
They jump in a sauna because I killed their self-esteem
That's a jab, you should bob and weave
Like Pam when Martin pulled jokes out his sleeve
I go in studio sessions and feel like a nerd
'Cause I'm the only nigga there not smoking no herb
You telling me the kush make you think on level four?
I'm on five, you saying I can level more?
In high school, my teachers thought I was smoking stress
Didn't know my eyes low cause of genetic defects
I stimulate my mind every time I think about the end of time
Creation of man and Columbine

Bet you think that this some high shit that I wrote
Probably think I'm off the kush or the hydro
I don't even smoke, I don't even smoke
I don't even smoke, I don't even smoke
I really appreciate that you share your endo
But a sip of Henny is the farthest I would go
I don't even smoke, I don't even smoke
I don't even smoke, I don't even smoke

Look, nowadays everybody think they big chiefers
Just 'cause they heard that new tape from Wiz Khalifa
Knowing damn well they can't hit the sour
They new booties, they probably need baby powder
My skill shower over your city for forty days
Forty nights, off the chain like freedom of slaves
Before you get it twisted like forty gays
My flow worth the earth, that's not to be appraised
Those the type of lines that I'm talking bout
You know, the type of rhymes you don't talk about
Copy my session on a disc when the session ends
So my mama can have it and play it for her friends
Brag on me like my son's bout to win
Somehow, someday, and I don't care when
I might hit the gin once a month
I'll let you inhale/in hell, like an atheist

Uh, I'll take you back to the ninth grade
When Dough Boy had me high for four days
That's my nigga, he a street nigga
Probably in your hood fucking up your street nigga
But anyway, I think it was some purple
Told me don't hit it hard because it'll hurt you
I didn't listen, I was floating like the Rose Parade
Swear to God a nigga seen some flying fishes
That was the Vegas trip Hooters sponsored
The same time I start writing like a fucking monster
I'm Frankenstein every time this motherfucker ponders
Just underline every letter
Capital K-D-O-T, letting it flat out
Like a tire with slow leaks, and what you bout?
Nothing huh? Am I square 'cause I don't puff a square?
Are my raps too blunt to hit the blunt? Yeah

(Kendrick Lamar (screwed))
H.O.C., H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C. (Bitch I'm blowed!)
H.O.C., H.O.C. (Bitch I'm blowed!)
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.
All the real smokers give me H.O.C.


Uh-uh-uh, uh, uh-uh-uh, uh
Ali, you thirsty on Twitter [laughs]
You boo-boo, you T
You turned down, you thirsty
You boo-boo

Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna find myself, I'm searching deep for Kendrick Lamar
I read about Napoleon Hill and try to know God
They say he the key to my blessings
And if I speak the good into existence, that instant my dreams will unlock
Money flow like water, I'll just wait at the dock
And by the way I'ma start, finding more light to shed
Like a small garage in your backyard
I'm back chilling with a friend of mine, she mighty fine
But I notice that her heart resides next to bitterness
Always hollering who she don't like, and who she kick it with
Who she wanna fight, who wearing a weave
Who Dooney and Bourke bag is fake, who holding the keys
To the car she drove last year, or who fucking on who
And who need a pap smear, getting on my nerves
But before your negative energy curve, bitch, I'ma cut you off

Cause every time you come around you be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say, oh my God
Shut the fuck up... hoe
Every time you come around you be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say

Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna surround myself with people that inspire me
Or at least inquire similar desires
To do what it T-A-K-E just to reach the T-O-P
I'm talking ideas, motivation
It's more than making enemies my nigga
Oh, that's not your memo? Then tell me why you constant stressing
On how much you well connected like centipedes my nigga?
I function with you and you flaunt your pistol
Every second tell me how you pressed him at the Monte Crystal
Where so-and-so from, and what neighborhoods beefing
Who baby momma's a rat, and who got killed last weekend
That shit is mad depressing, bringing me down
Speak on something with some substance that can get us both paid
Rather than telling me how these niggas jocking your style
Or his rims ain't bigger, pussy nigga, I'ma cut you off

Cause every time you come around you be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say, oh my God
Shut the fuck up... scary ass
Every time you come around you be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say

Uh, I'm tryna learn something new
I'm tryna better my chances of becoming a star
I'm tryna feel the vibe of Mona Lisa, studying art
Now paint that picture, life behind bars
Remember the very day I got caught?
I murdered a rapper, and you filed the police report?
See what I was taught, family is all I need
But indeed, them too can run me right up a tree
Constantly talking shit 'bout the next relative
Wanting me to take sides, but I'd never give in
Ever since grandma died everyone parted ways
Argue on holidays, left my uncle in prison
For fifteen years no one paid, him attention but moms
Yeah my momma as loyal as any sister would come
Come to my house just to yap about your own people, dang
And if your blood wasn't running through my veins
I would probably cut y'all off, too, yep

Cause every time you come around y'all be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say, oh my God
Shut the fuck up... keep it running Ali
Every time you come around you be hollering that
Whoop-de-whoop, blase-blah
He say, she say

So tell 'em shut the fuck up
Tell 'em shut the fuck up
Yeah bitch you boo-boo, you T
You turned down, you thirsty
Tell 'em shut the fuck up
Tell 'em shut the fuck up
Yeah nigga you boo-boo, you T
You turned down, you thirsty
You thirsty, you boo-boo
You T, you turned down
You boo-boo, you T
You boo-boo, you turned down
You thirsty, you T
You boo-boo, you turned down
You boo-boo, you T
You turned down, you weak
You weak, yo' bitch weak
Yeah [laughs]
You boo-boo, you T [laughs]
Keep all that

What is HiiiPoWeR?
HiiiPoWeR is the way we think, the way we live
See it's known today that the human race is nothing
No moral, no standards
What we're about to do is raise the level of expectations
No you don't have to have a lot of money
You don't have to be rich
But you will be rich in mind and spirit
Some say it's as big as a crew, some say it's as big as a gang
HiiiPoWeR, we stand for it as if it's as big as a religion


My nigga, what it look like?"

(Kendrick Lamar)
Niggas hating, bitches hating, babies dying
Bullets flying, helicopters, police sirens, preachers lying
Genosism, criticism, unemployment, racism
Burning buildings, AIDS victims, cancer killing, no cure
Oil spilling, turmoil, poverty-stricken
Police brutality kicking ass of us Africans, hostages in Afghanistan
Not to mention another prison, child molesting
Cow intestines, botox injection, earthquakes that's government testing
Secret society weapon, opium plant manifested
That turn to crack, then invest it amongst us blacks, just a method
To hold us back, great depression, amongst Iraq no direction
No google map, just a TEC for the soowoo
Swerving Isuzu, then blah-blah-blah, adolescents go cuckoo
Mothers are boo-boo crying, the governor keep us starving
These commercials keep us buying these cigarettes
Supermarkets fill up our liver with triumph, distinctive living with science
No place to live in, no Zion, see that's forbidden, we frying

"My nigga, what it look like?"
That's exactly what Hell look like, uh

(Chorus 2X: Alori Joh)
Tell it like it is, nigga
Tell it like it is, homeboy
Tell it like it is, nigga
Tell it like it is, tell 'em what's up

"My nigga, what it look like?"

(Kendrick Lamar)
Malcolm laughing, Martin laughing, Biggie spitting
'Pac is rapping, Gregory capping, people singing, bells is ringing
Children playing, angels praying, fourteen carat golden streets
Cali greens, red wine, potato yams, turkey legs
Calling every human being... [fades out]


I miss you, where you been?
It's been months and I haven't heard from you, I need you
It's been months and I haven't heard from you, come back to me
Come back, I need you in my life
I miss you, I miss you, come back to me, I miss you

(Dom Kennedy)
What's up baby? It's been a while
You been good? I've been around
Different girls, different towns
To keep it real, you missing out
I'll all bored, next city
Random cars, TEC's with me
Like I miss you so much, have sex with me
Not right now, look you know I got the ex with me
She like fuck that, I don't care Dom
So selfish and that really isn't fair Dom
Meet me here, where Dom?
Get undressed, yeah Dom
Yeah Dom, what you need?
Some bomb head? A bag of weed?
Good food? Japanese?
That's me on page forty in that magazine
"Dom Kennedy" you need that
She said nobody come close, I agreed back
I'm the nigga who used to help her pull that weed back
And she need me, believe that

(Chorus: Javonte)
That girl is smoking
And can you believe that I'm her focus?
It ain't hard to see she got me open
And together, we are roller-coasting, on, on, on

(Kendrick Lamar)
What's up love? It's been a while
You been good? I've been around
Remember dinner dates I was late? Mr. Chiles
Truant like a student, you the principal
Schooled me on timing, we was both shining
Like the sun bouncing off the brightest blood diamond
I was Your Highness, you was my queen
You got over him when I got in between
Watching Martin on TV as it was T-D-S
For us to eat TV dinners every time we was famished
But it was such a pleasure to watch you try to hold it together
Every time I put the head in you would panic
And come right down like an avalanche
Make your legs slant, whisper till you juicing up your pants
Baby how that sound? Kosher, no sir
Wake it back up, Folgers posters
By my waistline, shout for your hard hit
You called it a hate crime, say you want me back
And your girl wanna date Dom, that's high school shit
4-0-1 K, we could be friends with benefits, you dig that?

(MURS)
I upped and walked out, now she crying 'cause
She need me, I got that John Bryan love
Had to find love, we called it punch-drunk
We was a two-piece, she was a one-punch
You know, a knock-out, and if she was to walk out
My heart would go black, shrivel up and drop out
There we go again, what the fuck you talking bout?
We used to fuck all the time back at my momma's house
Smoking beedies, laying on the futon
Memories I got saved up like a coupon
And we'd be too gone off a sack of stress weed
I was broke then, couldn't count the best weed
Then she would just leave in a black hatchback
Homies from the hood used to ask me if I'd tapped that
I would say yep, smiling so freely
That was back then, but I bet she still need me
She need me, she need me
She need me, she need me
I would say yes, smiling so freely
That was back then, I bet she still need me


(Chorus 1: Kendrick Lamar)
The homies say I'm the truest
The bitches think I'm the cutest
The definition what cool is
Boy, I thought you knew this
Bitch I do this

(Y-O)
Now I prefer women with some sexy toes
With no corns but enjoys eating vegetables
Seem like everybody love the role of assholes
But I'm feeling better being crowned with some bad hoes
Mr. Michael of [?] speaking
Fedora on the top, the black Abraham Lincoln
I hear they fell in love with my penis
Only concerned with my balls like Venus

(Thurz)
Huh, they say I'm rolling like a big shot
Kama Sutra missionary, fuck shit up on top
Say, I'm big time, Flavor Flav on a wristwatch
And all these chickens want that rooster, call it Big Cock
Co-co-co-cock that, aim and shoot that sure shot
U-N-I, T.D.E. be doing it so go head and hop
On that bandwagon of my genitals, not new to me
I'm still serving broads on my chest for gratuity

(Chorus 2: Kendrick Lamar)
The homies say I'm the truest
The bitches think I'm the cutest
The definition what cool is
Boy, I thought you knew this
Bitch I do this
Bitch I do this
Bitch I do this
The definition what cool is
Boy, I thought you knew this
Bitch I do this

(Skeme)
Oh Lord, here he come, there they go again
Kendrick got my cover fire, bitch I'm going in
Burn a swisher up, then I roll again
Ee-Jay and Weezy, just make sure that dough keep rolling in, hah!
Got the world going crazy
Big chrome .380 if a nigga try and play me
Nigga's swag wavy, chauffeur got me car-pooling
So when it come to stunting, bitch I do it

(Brown)
Never been like you or wanted to be, I do me
She found out that I'm in a group, now she's a groupie
Don't need a watch that's full of diamonds to know that it's perfect timing
We be shining blue and brown and got that golden Gucci
Yeah, keep it simple stupid, all I see is trendy all around me
T.D.E. the movement, we Sore Losers out of Dallas County
Country accent, city fashion, lights are flashing on the cameras
Hoes are choosing me cause hating we ain't, pimping, keep our balance

(Kendrick Lamar)
These hoes want to love me mayne
So I'm like, what up? Uh what up?
Uh, bitch I do this remix stupid, fire burning, people looting
That's the chaos, comes from K. Dot swinging swords and hanging nooses
Chunking deuces, then drop one, dropping music and I won
Call me hot or call me Pac, every eye on me and it's obviously
I'm close as next to kingdom come, I just run my city dude
You just make your city run, they hate to be next to you
Tables turn, say you earn rights to be the God MC
I'm bout to make that halo burn, goddamn that's some irony
I am the messiah of society
Beside of Halle Berry, feed me berries in Paris, oui-oui
I carry on a great endeavor, ambition leave all men grief
Like beliefs of Mason Betha, reporting from C-P-T motherfucker

Bitch I do this
Bitch I do this
The definition what cool is
Boy, I thought you knew this
Bitch I do this


Gather 'round
I'm glad everybody came out tonight
As we stand on our neighborhood corner, know that this fire that's burning represents the passion you have, listen
Keisha, Tammy, come up front
I recognize all of you, every creed and color
With that being said, fuck your ethnicity
You understand that? We gon' talk about a lot of shit that concerns you, all of you

Now everybody, throw your hands up high
If you don't give a fuck, throw your hands up high
Throw your hands up high

Now I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga

Fire burning inside my eyes, this the music that saved my life
Y'all be calling it hip hop, I be calling it hypnotize
Yeah, hypnotize, trapped my body but freed my mind
What the fuck are you fighting for? Ain't nobody gon' win that war
My details be retail, man, I got so much in store
Racism is still alive, yellow tape and colored lines
Fuck that, nigga look at that line, it's so diverse
They getting off work and they wanna see Kendrick
Everybody can't drive Benz's, and I been there, so I make it my business
To give 'em my full attention, ten-hut, man, I gotta get my wind up
Man, I gotta get down with God 'cause I got my sins up
Matter of fact, don't mistake me for no fucking rapper
They sit backstage and hide behind the fucking cameras
I mosh pit, had a microphone and I tossed it
Had a brain, then I lost it
I'm out of my mind so don't you mind how much the cost is
Penny for my thoughts, everybody, please hold up your wallets
Yeah man, I'm the mailman, can't you tell, man?
Going postal, never freeze up, when I approach you
That's starstruck and roast you, oh my
HiiiPower

Reporting live from Planet Terminator X
I am Martin Luther King with a AK-47

Now I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga

I'm tired of y'all, 'cause everybody lied to y'all
And you believe it, recognize them false achievements
It's treason and I'm Tylenol
I knock out when you knock it off
Knock on the doors of opportunity, I'm too involved
I'm no activist, I'm no Einstein before calculus
I was kicking that math, dropping that science like an alchemist
And I be kicking that ass
Lyrically I'm UFC, if a UFO had came for me
I'mma come back with the head of an alien, don't alienate my dreams
Get it right, get a life, I got two
That's a metaphor for the big shit I do
Boy, TMI, TSA, man I'm fly
Put wings on my back, that a plane or a angel?
Both like a pilot with a halo, whoa gross

I mean, I've seen so many things come through them, him, her, you
Hmm, hmm, hmm, hmm, I'm just a messenger
Yeah, I know life's a bitch, get the best of her
Put them three's up, they notice that we up
HiiiPower and the power in the people and if they don't believe us, they'll die
Wizard

Now I don't give a fuck if you
Black, white, Asian, Hispanic, goddammit
That don't mean shit to me
Fuck your ethnicity, nigga


I wrote this record while thirty thousand feet in the air
Stewardess complimentin' me on my nappy hair
If I can f-ck her in front of all of these passengers
They'll prob'ly think I'm a terrorist
Eat my asparagus, then I'm askin' her
Thoughts of a young nigga, fast money and freedom
A crash dummy for diamonds, I know you dyin' to meet 'em
I'll prob'ly die in a minute
Just bury me with twenty bitches, twenty million, and a Comptown fitted

Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)

Yeah, big shit poppin'
Section 80

Back in this bitch in the back of that bitch
Wit' my back against the wall and yo' bitch on the edge of my dick
Jump off
I call a bitch a bitch, a ho a ho, a woman a woman
I never did nothin' but break the ground on top of the asphalt
Tire mark gave you evidence that I'm easily peddlin' with the speed of a lightnin' bolt
As a kid I killed two adults, I'm too advanced
I live my twenties at two years old, the wiser man
Truth be told, I'm like eighty-seven
Wicked as eighty reverends in a pool of fire wit' devils holdin' hands
From the distance, don't know which one is a Christian, damn
Who can I trust in 2012? There's no one
Not even myself, a Gemini screamin' for help, somebody

Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)

Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga, losin' ain't an option

Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)

Yeah, big shit poppin'
(Ay, ay, kick her out the studio, Ali)

24/7 nigga, workin' his ass for it, she poppin' that ass for it
The King of Diamonds wit' diamonds I never do ask for
They checkin' my passport, I'm too accustomed with Customs
She call in the task force, I killed it, somebody cuff 'im
They want me to fast-forward the game, and why you complain
When you niggas is past poor, you'll never hop in my lane
When you pushin' a RAV4, you wreckin' my Jaguar
You play like a bad sport, her feet on the dashboard

Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)

Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga, losin' ain't an option

Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)
Hol' up (Hol' up)

Yeah, big shit poppin', everybody watchin'
When you do it like this, nigga...

I wrote this record while thirty thousand feet in the air
Stewardess complimentin' me on my nappy hair
If I can fuck her in front of all of these passengers
They'll prob'ly think I'm Osama
The plane emergency landed, it was an honor

Hol' up


Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

Man, I swear, my nigga trippin' off that shit again, pick him up
Then I set him in cold water, then I order someone to bring him Vicodin
Hope to take the pain away from the feelin' that he feel today
You know, when you part of Section.80, you feel like no one can relate
Cause you are, you are, a loner, loner
Marijuana endorphins make you stronger, stronger
I'm in the house party trippin' off my generation, sippin' cough syrup
Like it's water, never no pancakes in the kitchen, man
No wonder our lives is caught up in the daily superstition
That the world is 'bout to end, who gives a fuck? We never do listen
'Less it comes with an 808 (A melody and some hoes)
Playstation and some drank (Technology bought my soul)
Lookin' around and all I see is a big crowd that's product of me
And they probably relatives relevant for a rebel's dream, yep
Her president is black, she black too
Purple Label on her back, but that tab is light blue
She take it straight to the head
Then she look at me, she got A.D.H.D

Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (They always told me A.D.H.D did it)

And then she started
And then she started feelin' herself like no one else in this apartment
Beg your pardon, oh I rap baby, how old are you?
She say, "Twenty-two," I say, "Twenty-three," "Okay, then we all crack babies"
Damn, why you say that? She said, "Where my drink at?
I'mma tell you later, just tell your neighbors have the police relax"
I stood up, shut the blinds, closed the screen, jumbotron
Made to the back where she reside, then she said, read between the lines
Yep, hope that I get close enough, when the lights turn down
And the fact that she just might open up, when the Nuvo start to drown
Her body and I know the both of us really deep in the move now
It's nothin' we can do now, somebody walked in with a pound
Of that Bay Area kush, she looked at me then looked
At it, then she grabbed it, then she said, "Get it understood
You know why we crack babies because we born in the eighties, that A.D.H.D crazy"

Eight doobies to the face, fuck that
Twelve bottles in the case, nigga, fuck that
Two pills and a half weight, nigga, fuck that
Got a high tolerance when your age don't exist

Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (Don't got a limit, just give me some more with it)
Like whoa, ooh whoa, whoa (They always told me A.D.H.D did it)

Ab-Soul:
You can have all my shine, I'll give you the light
Double cup, deuce, four, six, just mix it in Sprite
Ecstasy, shrooms, blow, 'dro, hoes, whatever you like
You can have all my shine, I'll give you the light


Colin Munroe:
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl that's fine, but I wanna know do you mind?

No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today, day, day, day, day, today
No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today
And girl that's fine but I wanna know do you mind?

Kendrick Lamar:
I know she 'bout to ask me how she look
I tell her beautiful, and how long it took
For you to put it on, it was early in the morn'
She resembled a model out of a Mac book
Concentrating on the way the eyeliner thickens
I stand behind her and try to figure her vision
Of prettiness, the wittiness, of colors on her skin tone
Her complexion in a direction I've outgrown
Damn girl, why so much?
You 'bout to blow your cover when you cover up
Don't you know your imperfections is a wonderful blessing
From heaven is where you got it from
I love your smile, you can do it without style
From your lips, all the way to your eyebrows
It's the beauty in her but when the make-up occur
I don't see it, all I see is a blur

Colin Munroe:
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl that's fine, but I wanna know do you mind?

No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today, day, day, day, day, today
No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today
And girl that's fine but I wanna know do you mind?

Kendrick Lamar and Alori Joh:
I know she 'bout to ask me how she look
I tell her beautiful, and how long it took
For you to put it on, it was early in the morn'
She resembled a model out of a Mac book
(Concentrating on the way my) eyeliner thickens
(He stand behind me and try to) figure her vision
(Of prettiness, the wittiness of colors on my skin tone)
(My complexion in a direction) I've outgrown
(I feel like it's not enough)
(I can never put on too much makeup)
(Yeah, I know) your imperfections (I be constantly stressing)
(From him is where I get it from, they tell me I need to)
Smile (at least once in a while)
(I hate my lips, my nose, my) eyebrows
(It's the beauty in me, but what he don't see)
(Is that I had a black ey-) To be continued, eleven

Kendrick Lamar and James Brown:
(Ladies and gentlemen)
And you ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
You ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
You ain't gotta get drunk to have fun
You ain't gotta get drunk to have fun

Colin Munroe:
I love the way you put it on your eyes
The roses on your face light up the sky
Those lips are colorful all of the time
And girl that's fine, but I wanna know do you mind?

No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today, day, day, day, day, today
No makeup today, day, day, day, day
No makeup today
And girl that's fine but I wanna know do you mind?


Don't judge me

I know this girl, she a real good girl and she be low-key
Looking like a star, with a real nice car, a Mercedes key
She got a nigga and she love this nigga, well, at least I think
Every time we bark, she pay us no mind in the middle of the street, she be like

"Fuck them other niggas 'cause I'm down for my nigga
Fuck them other niggas 'cause I'm down for my nigga
Fuck them other niggas, I'll ride for my nigga
I'll die for my nigga, fuck them other"

Until one day he wasn't acting right
In the middle of the night, she checked his phone, Erica, right
When he plead the fifth, man, it was on, matter of fact she gone
Matter of fact Tyrone was on speed dial
So when she got home, it was going down, she go

"Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Sick of lies from her nigga, fuck that other"

I know this girl, she a real hood girl, and she with the shit
Keep her hair tied up, big bamboos, Mike Jordan kicks
With that big butt, but when I try to holla, she gon' resist
In her man she trust, so when I walk by her, she be screaming this, she be like

"Fuck them other niggas 'cause I'm down for my nigga
Fuck them other niggas 'cause I'm down for my nigga
Fuck them other niggas, I'll ride for my nigga
I'll die for my nigga, fuck them other"

Until one day he wasn't acting right in the middle of the night
She checked his pockets, found condoms by Magnum
And the moment they was acknowledged, she popped his eye
Then ran outside, then started driving on the passenger side
Homeboy was smiling, she gon'

"Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Fuck that other nigga when she tired of her nigga
Sick of lies from her nigga, fuck that other"

And so, these girls, these vulnerable girls, took they men up
Put 'em in their world, their vulnerable world, and just like that
It was only getting they feelings hurt, tell me how that sound?
They got fed up with the biggest question mark, they curious now
'Cause when women get sick of men, they think of a big helping hand
To lend each other under cover emotions when lights dim
So when she telling her to come over, it'll be alright
The minute she hit the block and turn left, she'll be turning dyke, they

Fuck with other bitches when they tired of these niggas
Fuck with other bitches when they tired of these niggas
Fuck with other bitches on the side 'cause these niggas
Tammy's song


Riding with them boys and girls and we're high
All we want to do is have a good time
Young wild and reckless is how we live life
Pray that we make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa, whoa
We make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa

Riding with them boys and girls and we're high
All we want to do is have a good time
Young wild and reckless is how we live life
Pray that we make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa, whoa
We make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa

I'm glad we were able to talk about her vice and her evils
There's a more important topic I'd like to discuss
The dysfunctional bastards of the Ronald Reagan Era
Young men that learned to do everything spiteful
This is your generation
Live fast and die young
Who's willing to explain this story?

Riding with them boys and girls and we're high
All we want to do is have a good time
Young wild and reckless is how we live life
Pray that we make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa, whoa
We make it to twenty-one, one, one, one, whoa

Riding with them boys and girls and we're high
All we want to do is have a good time
Young wild and reckless is how we live life
Pray that we make it to twenty-one, one, one, one


Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

I used to want to see the penitentiary way after elementary
Thought it was cool to look the judge in the face when he sentenced me
Since my uncles was institutionalized
My intuition has said I was suited for family ties
My momma is stressing, my daddy tired
I need me a weapon, these niggas ride
Every minute, hour and second, ministers tried to save me
How I'm gonna listen when I don't even hear God?
Heaven or Hell, base it all on my instincts
My hands dirty, you worried 'bout mud in your sink
You like to mistake a street nigga for real nigga
The same nigga that killed with ya, a squeal with ya
I deal with ya like my son, stare at the sun
And you'll be looking in my eyes, homie
Stand for something, or fall for anything
And you working with two left feet at the skating rink
But anyway, this for my niggas
Uncles, twenty-three hours sending me pictures
I want you to know that I'm so determined to blow
That you hear the music I wrote, hope it get you off Death Row
You came home to a pocket full of stones
A Metro PC phone, then you went back in
So when I touch the pen, the pen is in my view
I'mma get it right, just so you

Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

GLC:
And I do this for the city
Got some Hennessy and my real niggas with me
Fuck the police, they gonna have to come and get me
If it feel good to you, holla if you hear me

Kendrick Lamar:
You like to mistake a street nigga for real nigga
That same nigga that kill with ya, will squeal with ya
I'd like to start it out from the bottom and build with ya
Be on my last dollar and split the bill with ya
I'm twenty-three with morals and plans of living cordial
Not rich, but wealthy, there's nothing you can tell me
My killings are not remorseful
The city got my back, and for that, I give them my torso
You think about it, and don't call me lyrical
'Cause really I'm just a nigga that's evil and spiritual
I know some rappers using big words to make their similes curve
My simplest shit be more pivotal
I penetrate the hearts of good kids and criminals
Worrisome individuals that live life critical
So won't you bear witness while I bare feet
So you can walk in my shoes and get to know me?

But anyway, this for my pops
On his lunch break, eating in the parking lot
On "Wanna Be Heard," probably thought he worked my nerves
But really he was stressing me, getting what I deserved
Somebody said my name on the radio
He ain't know I was ready for, the world that minute
So the next time he roll up and drop grams in it
He'll probably be out of work, laid back, while he

Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good
Smoke good, eat good, live good

GLC:
And I do this for the city
Got some Hennessy and my real niggas with me
Fuck the police, they gonna have to come and get me
If it feel good to you, holla if you hear me

Church is definitely on the move and now we took it up to the cathedral 'cause the ism is enormous, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
We out here rotating under the five P's, proper preparation prevents poor performance, know what I'm talking 'bout?
Doing my thing, 'cause I'm rotating when my speakers thumping from the Windy City streets all the way out here to the streets of Compton, know what I'm talking 'bout?
Church is definitely on the move and we gonna continue to hustle and grow and develop by fire, as I rotate with my true player partner by the name of Kendrick Lamar, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
This is the ism this is the vision, you know what I'm talking 'bout? You gotta get up off your ass and get it, man
That's the only way your pockets gonna expand
I tell you everyday, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
Apply yourself to supply your wealth, only limitations you'll ever have are those that you place upon yourself
Church is definitely on the move, you know what I'm talking 'bout?
Exercise your ism and don't depend on no one else
Cathedral, chuuch, ism


Ash Riser:
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars

Kendrick Lamar:
And Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals, leaving her body sore
She take the little change she make to fix her nail cuticles
Lipstick is suitable to make you fiend for more
She play Mr. Shakur, that's her favorite rapper
Bumping "Brenda's Got a Baby" while a pervert yelling at her
And she capture features of a woman, but only seventeen
The seven cars start honking, she start running like Flo-Jo
Don't care if they Joe Blow, if they got money to blow a blow job is a sure go
And sure enough don't see a dime of dirty dollars
She give all to her daddy but she don't know her father, that's ironic
See a block away from Lueders Park, I seen the El Camino parked
In her heart she hate it there, but in her mind she made it where
Nothing really matters, so she hit the back seat
Rosa Parks never a factor when she making ends meet

Ash Riser:
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars

Kendrick Lamar:
And Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals, leaving a body sore
Her anatomy is God's temple
And it's quite simple, her castle is 'bout to be destroyed
She's always paranoid, watching the law inside the streets
Undercovers the dummies that look like decoys
Remember the sergeant let her slide, said if he seen
What's between her thighs he'd compromise, to no surprise
She took the ultimatum 'round the alleyway and gave him
A warm welcome that filled him right below the navel
Though he was wired up like a pair of jumping cables
His eyes was closed shut, prior charges, he had waived 'em
It was a block away from Lueders Park, I seen a squad car parked
And in her heart, she hate it there but in her mind, she made it where
Nothing really matters, so she hit the back seat
'Cause Rosa Parks never a factor when she topping off police

Ash Riser:
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars

Kendrick Lamar:
And Lord knows she's beautiful
Lord knows the usuals, leaving a body sore
As she bust down like a twelve bunk on tour
She suddenly realized, she'll never escape the allure
Of a black man, white man, needing satisfaction
At first, it became a practice, but now she's numb to it
Sometimes she wonder if she can do it like nuns do it
But she never heard of Catholic religion or sinners' redemption
That sounds foolish, and you can blame it on her mother
For letting her boyfriend slide candy under her cover
Ten months before she was ten he moved in and that's when he touched her
This mothafucka is the fucking reason why Keisha rushing through that
Block away from Lueders Park, I seen the El Camino park
And in her heart she hate it there but in her mind, she made it where
Nothing really matters, still she hit the back seat
And caught a knife inside the bladder, left for dead, raped in the street, Keisha's song

My little sister eleven, I looked her right in the face
The day that I wrote this song, set her down and pressed play

Ash Riser:
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars, oh
Fancy girls on Long Beach Boulevard
Flagging down all of these flashy cars


Alright, here we go, third take
Real quick, Ali

Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson with madness, now just imagine the magic
I light to asses, don't ask for your favorite rapper

(He dead), yessir (Amen), Chuuch
(He dead), I killed him, (Amen), Bitch

And this is rigamortus and it's gorgeous when you die
Ali recorded, and I'm Morpheus, the matrix of my mind
I'm out the orbit, you an orphan and a hairdresser combined
I'm on the toilet when I rhyme, if you the shit then I decline
I climax where you begin and then I end on cloud nine
And that's important when you morph into a angel in the sky
And don't be forging all my signatures, my listeners reply
And tell me that you biting style, you got a hell of an appetite
And I'mma be here for a while just buckle up before the ride
Or knuckle up, if you could fight, we always making 'em duck or die
A suit and tie is suitable and usual in suicide
CSI just might investigate this fucking parasite
(He dead, amen) That's what they telling me
Aim it at your celebrity, this is studio felony
Ferragami so many and cool enough for the seventies
Nigga, payback's a bitch and bitch you been living in debt with me
Dead 'em all and especially, leave a call on his mother voicemail
To say that he rest in peace, bigger chopper the recipe
Wrestling, that's irrelevant, rather rest at your residence
Whistling to the melody, couldn't think of a better D
Better be on your P and Q, it's just me Jay Rock, Soul and Q
Solar system and barbecue, nothing else you can do

(He dead), yup-yup, (Amen), I killed him
(He dead), haha, (Amen), amen

Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper

(He dead), yup-yup, (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure, (Amen), amen

Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper

I rapped him and made him Casper, I captured the likes of NASA
My pedigree to fly past ya, I pass the weed to the pastor
We all are sinners, won't you send us to bible study faster
Your hypocrite-esque reaction a blasphemy, I assassin my casualty
And it's casually done and tell 'em my salary come
A lump sum of hundreds don't talk to me 'bout no money
The sun is under my feet and I come in peace to compete
I don't run if you rather leap, my statistics go up in weeks
And I go visit the nearest creek and I get busy on many MC, really ballistic
Anybody can see any assistance, everybody done see some persistence
Recognize I be really too vicious the permanent beast
And the demolition breaking up the streets, better partition, better dot your T
And I gon' mention how the far you see, putting my dick in the rap industry
Everybody bitching, getting mad at me, recognize Kendrick in the battery
And I'm charged up and the catastrophe is charged up and the audacity
Of y'all fucks never could hassle me and y'all luck, just ran out you'll see

(He dead), yup-yup, (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure, (Amen), amen

Got me breathing with dragons
I'll crack the egg in your basket, you bastard
I'm Marilyn Manson, don't ask for your favorite rapper

(He dead), yup-yup, (Amen), I know
(He dead), for sure, (Amen), amen


Check, check, check, check

Ride to it, ride to it 'cause you never know
When a bullet might hit and you die to it, die to it
Die to it, die to it, live your life, live it right
Be different, do different things
Don't do it like he did 'cause he ain't what you is
But we can win, wait, let's get straight to the point

To the meaning of life, what's my purpose?
Maybe this Earth is ain't a good place to be
How far is heaven? Let's see
Is it in the clouds like they said it would be?
I wonder when I die will he give me receipts?
I wonder will the eyes of the lord look at me?
Look at me, look at me, I'm a loser, I'm a winner
I'm good, I'm bad, I'm a Christian, I'm a sinner
I'm humble, I'm loud, I'm righteous, I'm a killer
What I'm doing, I'm saying that I'm human, now people just

Ride to it, ride to it, 'cause you never know
When a bullet might hit and you die to it, die to it
Die to it, die to it, live your life, live it right
Be different, do different things
Don't do it like he did, 'cause he ain't what you is
But we can win, wait, let's get straight to the point

It go one, two, three, two in the front, one in the back seat, seat, seat
Seat, looking for a victim of an AK-47, hundred round each, each, each
But why must we retaliate? Is it human nature?
I don't know, I look for the answers later
Make a right, there they go

Sometimes gotta ride to it, ride to it 'cause you never know
When a bullet might hit and you die to it, die to it
Die to it, die to it, live your life, live it right
Be different, do different things
Don't do it like he did 'cause he ain't what you is
But we can win, wait, let's get straight to the point

As I open this book and then burn up some of this reefer
My plan is to figure out the world and escape all my demons
I'm dying inside, I wonder if Zion inside the heavens
A condom, a Rollie, pain, a fat blunt and a Mac-11
That's all I see in my life and they tell me to make it right
But I'm right on the edge of Everest and I might jump tonight
Have you ever had known a saint that was taking sinner's advice?
Well it's probably you, am I right? If I'm wrong, you a fucking lie
When I lie on back and look at the ceiling, it's so appealing to pray
I wonder if I'm just a villain, dealing my morals away
Some people look at my face then tell me don't worry 'bout it
I give 'em back they deposit, no money, just total silence
I'm running, they say I'm wilding a young'n with lack of guidance
That's hundreds of us with problems, more money, more drugs and violence
Look at the soul of an out-of-control artist
That's dealing with life the hardest, that's on my life, but regardless I'mma

Ride to it, ride to it, 'cause you never know
When a bullet might hit and you die to it, die to it
Die to it, die to it, live your life, live it right
Be different, do different things
Don't do it like he did, 'cause he ain't what you is
But we can win, wait, let's get straight to the point

BJ the Chicago Kid:
Yeah, life can please ya, but death can tease ya
On the day Niko had that seizure, I lost one of my biggest believers
Close deaths make you think about your life
Like if I had that same chance twice, what would I do different?
I'd tell her I loved her more, do more
But tease her 'bout crying on that picture
Now when I'm done recording, swear I let the beat bang in her name
Make her shake her head in heaven saying, they at it again
Make them clouds turn to speakers, don't take too much smoke
From the reefer, love being in the room with her peoples
Now my love life murking it, family having surgeries
Hate it that the truth that chose for they life to be under me
Lord, what kind of life is this?

Mama I just wanna sing
Mama said, "According to get everything
You gotta risk everything"
So I'm smoking my kush reading Corinthians
Smoking my kush reading Corinthians
Smoking my kush reading Corinthians
Smoking my kush reading Corinthians


"Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all"
(Pussy ass hoe niggas) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Bitches all up in my business) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Industry of counterfeits) "I can't fuck with y'all"

Taking off when you landing
Bitch niggas gonna throw tantrums
And I'm dancing on them stars
The galaxy ain't got room for y'all
Ain't nothing gonna happen soon for y'all
While I'm here, and every day I hear
Your bullshit, self-pity
Reason why you never dealt with me
Reason why your girl dealt with me
Hands up in the building, we get busy, and say
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P, yep
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P, yep
That's exactly what this sound like
A to the A to the L-I-Y
A-H, give it up two times
Then give it right back, don't blow my high

"Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all"
(Pussy ass hoe niggas) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Bitches all up in my business) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Industry of counterfeits) "I can't fuck with y'all"

Look at my life, then look at yours
Get some ambition, why you bored?
Time will never wait on no man
Society will never hold your hand
Niggas like to gossip like bitches
Got me thinking you don't like bitches
Wonder what's behind them Ray Bans
Eyes of a coward, I understand
Niggas like to gossip like bitches
Sip Don Perignon, when we finish, we say
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P, yep
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P, yep
That's exactly what this sound like
But never will I ever forget Left Eye
Roll up, put a ribbon in the sky
And a button on your lips, don't blow my high

"Smoking out, pouring up, keep that lean up in my cup
All my car got leather and wood, in my hood we call it buck
Everybody wanna ball, holla at broads at the mall
If he up, watch him fall, I can't fuck with y'all"
(Pussy ass hoe niggas) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Bitches all up in my business) "I can't fuck with y'all"
(Industry of counterfeits) "I can't fuck with y'all"

Now everybody sing this shit

(Sung by female)
I'm sending him a four-page letter
And I enclose it with a kiss
And when I write, he'll be better
Get it on time

Look at my life and look at yours
Get some ambition, why you bored?
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P
R-I-P Aaliyah, R-I-P


She knew exactly who I was becoming
Reality of dreams, younger for memories of a still wonder
Of who I might be
And for her it's hard to stomach what's left behind and what's to come in the same introduction of a king
Just know everything coming can only give birth to the principle that by any means
I produce like eagles
Soar in the highest clouds to let my conscience free
So I can feed ex girls like sea gulls with better egos in out work
While these ambitions girl with the tip of my penis
To write stories, a young poetic genius
And I mean this, there's never been a day off
Never been laid off, my own boss and my payoff is to get laid off
Get a break off just to rehire myself
For the take off
Beach House... the EP

These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work
I give no fucks, I give no damn
I took my bitch straight from her man, from her man
That nigga ain't had much money as I do
That nigga don't know your body like I do
Your friends think I ain't shit, I don't like them either
Them hoes ain't shit, they can't keep no man either
Ain't believing me then but you see me now
Said you'd never trust me again but you believe me now
And now somehow we supposed to fix ya, pposed to fix ya

These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work

Baby girl she 100 my mind right, that's real stuntin
She in the crowd tryna fly it for me
I fucked around and then went for it
I love that girl so much
I fucked around and paid the rent for her
Feel like I'm the right pimp for her
But we got enough, she ain't gotta work
I give it to er, I got it first
She right here, I ain't gotta search
We in a party...
We in a party, I'm amused by how you move yo body
Baby girl she more poppin' in the 12 gauge Shawty
She got 4 shots, we goin' up, I don't need no molly
These hoes fuck with the squad, she ran through the whole posy
Girl I think about you when I'm in that hotel lobby
I'm coming home to you, yeah I got work for yo body

These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work

I'm gonna work on it
You gon get this work, girl
I'mma throw these bands
You gon make it clap with no hands
When her ass down, goddamn
You gon get this work girl
Oh oh oh
(You gon get this work girl)
I'mma throw these bands
You gon make it clap with no hands
When her ass down, damn

These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
These hoes all tryna come back and make it work, make it work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work
I tell these hoes come get this work, get this work

I used to love these hoes
I used to love these hoes
I used to love these hoes
But now I love this money
I used to love these hoes

Hoes, I used to have a lot of kind
But when they realize that I gotta grind
I replaced the lies and the thighs and the hotter dimes
With the fuckin' rhymes and the ties and the dolla signs
The symbol of the producers
I full want my mental producers
I'm leaving these haters clueless
When I spit because they missin' what I get because I'm cold
Real niggas listen to the shit that I unfold
I cannot believe that whether they used to be lovin' these hoes
Now that I be on my money, it's funny the way that I govern these hoes
And I be runnin' these hoes, doin' whatever I wanna do with em
As long as I be on my paper, 'cause I'm gon let nothing in front of me after my currency flow
And if we getting the fetty so up
But I throw it away but the bitches don't want
If they talk about me
Your position to fall will be nothing
I'm done wit yo frontin, just give me yo dollars, I don't wanna holler
I don't want yo woman, I want the Apollo
But see for the Benjamins I got my shotta
And Twista love dollars but I admit

I used to love these hoes
I used to love these hoes
I used to love these hoes
But now I love this money
I used to love these hoes


I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

I got a bad light skin from the valley
She be in the club with no panties
Little bitch, she used to be my favorite
But now we don't speak the same language
I love my bitch, I could bang it
From my dark skin, least know how to take it
I got 'em both the same damn red bottoms
And bought 'em both the same damn fragrance
Both bitches drive Range Rovers
None of my bitches can stay over
Both of my bitches look good as fuck
Your bitch look like booga wolf

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

Yeah, I'm paranoid, I'm trippin'
I've been smoking, I've been sippin'
I'm fuckin' around with two bitches
But I never made them hoes my miss's

Women talk, women talk
She run her mouth so much she can't hear her own thoughts
Told my old ho, she my new bitch
Told my new bitch, she my old ho
Well she used to be your ho
Dead, hold up, flat-line
I fuck a bitch to sleep, nap time
I put my name on it and that's mine
Pussy so wet she thought it got baptized
Ask me where I'm at, that's a set-up
You ain't talkin' 'bout nothing, bitch shut up
If you got a side chick, nigga what up
Both my girls in the club bout to nut up
Stalking on my network
Got her looking so hard that her neck hurt
And I ain't tripping, I got room for 'em both
This is HAM Squad, I just doubled up my net worth

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

Yeah, I'm paranoid, I'm trippin'
I've been smoking, I've been sippin'
I'm fuckin' around with two bitches
But I never made them hoes my miss's

Yeah, I'm paranoid, I'm trippin'
I've been smoking, I've been sippin'
I'm fuckin' around with two bitches
But I never made them hoes my miss's

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid


I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

I got a bad light skin from Cali
She be in the club with no baddies
Little momma used to be my main bitch
But now we don't speak the same language
I love my bitch, I could bang it
From my dark skin, least know how to take it
She wear the red bottoms all night
You never heard of dolla sign, bet you will now
Both of my bitches drive Range Rovers
None of my bitches eat leftovers
Both of my bitches look good as fuck
Your bitch look like booga wolf

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

Yeah, I'm paranoid, I'm trippin'
I've been smoking, I've been sippin'
I'm fuckin' around with two bitches
But I never made them hoes my miss's

Got bad Spanish bitches in Miami
Shit, All the bitches Spanish in Miami
Get pussy like I am me, hating ass niggas can't stand me
Flown cross country out to Cali, Work it out like Bally's
Introduce the hoes to my homies, titties feeling all silicone
All of my bitches play sleepover
And then we fuck, and then we buss and do the sheets over
And then we fuck and then we fuck and then we buss
None of my bitches wanna fuck with you
All of my bitches eat pussy too (yes they do)

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

Yeah, I'm paranoid, I'm trippin'
I've been smoking, I've been sippin'
I'm fuckin' around with two bitches
But I never made them hoes my miss's

If I give a fuck about a bitch, I'd always be broke
I'd never have no motherfucking endo to smoke
I get in with tooty, niggas acting looney
Do you, let your girl do me
Now I got a bitch out in Oakland, Got a bitch in the A
Got a bitch out in Portland, Got a bitch in the Bay
Got a bitch out in Queens, Got a bitch in the Valley
I be reppin' the East, while I'm smoking in Cali
Manage shit, head getting risky
Feeling like short with bitches
Paranoid, rolla toya
Now I'm ballin' like A.I. on the Hoyas
High getting bent, Bitches getting paranoid bet it be the hen, yet again
I be pimpin' like hugh heff, seen two of my bitches two step

I see two of my bitches in the club
And I know they know about each other
I think these bitches tryna set me up
Maybe I'm just paranoid

Hands up, hands up
If you came to fucking party hands up
Hands up, hands up
If you came to fucking party hands up
Now just rock, just rock
If you came to fucking party just rock
Just rock, just rock
And this is the remix


I got a lotta cash
I don't mind spending it

I'ma smoke this joint then I'ma break you off
I be lying if I said you ain't the one
All these tattoos in my skin, they turn you on
Lotta smoking, drinking, that's the shit I'm on
Heard you not the type that you take home to Mom
Is we fucking when we leave the club or nah?
I ain't spending cash for nothing, I wanna see you take it off
I'ma pop this bottle, you gon' give me brain or nah?

Do you like the way I flick my tongue or nah?
You can ride my face until you're drippin' cum
Can you lick the tip then throat the dick or nah?
Can you let me stretch that pussy out or nah?
I'm not the type to call you back tomorrow
But the way you wrappin 'round me is a prob
Ain't nobody tryna save ya
Baby, get that paper
Probably got a lot of other bitches owe you favors
Pussy so good, I had to save that shit for later
Took her to the kitchen, fucked her right there on the table
She repping XO to the death, I'm tryna make these bitches sweat
I'm tryna keep that pussy wet, I'm tryna fuck her and her friends

You gonna run it for these hunnids girl or nah?
Show me is you really 'bout your money girl or nah?
Don't play with a boss, girl take it off
Take it for a real one
You gonna get it all

Is you really 'bout your money or nah?
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah

Girl, make that ass clap for young dollar sign
You already know my money go a long time
I could slide for it, like Nelly
I'ma go as far as you let me
Girl, is you sucking me or fucking me or nah?
Can I bring another bitch? Let's have a threesome
You gon' make them eggs cheesy with them grits or nah?
Can you do it like that, on this dick or nah?

You gonna run it for these hunnids girl or nah?
Show me is you really 'bout your money girl or nah?
Don't play with a boss, girl take it off
Take it for a real one
You gonna get it all

Is you really 'bout your money or nah?
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah


That girl looked familiar
Real recognize real, that's familiar
I be ridin' the whip that ain't familiar
Getting to the money, that's familiar
Oh that's familiar
That can't be yo girl, she familiar
If you ain't real we don't feel ya
Say my name to these hoes, that's familiar

Say my name to these hoes, that's familiar
My name in these streets, that's familiar
Got so many hoes I can't remember
Young rich nigga with a temper
Double cup full of Act, I be poured up
In the club, and my second chunk up
They know these hoes, they showin love
These ho niggas get no love
We goin' up like every night
I fuck a bitch on every flight
But a bad bitch getting threesomes
I said OK, I'll marry ya
Yeah, she know that I'm that nigga
And if they say yo name ain't that familiar?

That girl looked familiar
Real recognize real, that's familiar
I be ridin' the whip that ain't familiar
Getting to the money, that's familiar
Oh that's familiar
That can't be yo girl, she familiar
If you ain't real we don't feel ya
Say my name to these hoes, that's familiar

Icy slopes, groupies on a boat, seen that before
Saint Laurent, mixin uniqlo, I know that ain't yo ho
Straight up
But goddamn it, I'm so outlandish
I'm beatin' all my niggas, and that building so outstanding
Just Lil John 'cause he chasin what's familiar
Had no car and there come Scooby in that rental
Times are simple, now bitches comin' andale, andale
I'm passin out state to state
Everyday my birthday
I'm pilin up, cake to cake
I'm a snort addict, whore addict
And I'm a porn star attraction
This feel like the all star game
That's Sylvester Stallone action
I need 2 Mrs. Jacksons
A full pack of Magnums
You ran a train, I ran er out
You took her took, we see you out
Goddamn!

That girl looked familiar
Real recognize real, that's familiar
I be ridin' the whip that ain't familiar
Getting to the money, that's familiar
Oh that's familiar
That can't be yo girl, she familiar
If you ain't real we don't feel ya
Say my name to these hoes, that's familiar

I see that bitch everywhere, I swear that bitch see things
I seen that bitch somewhere, I think it was the Heat game
You know I peeped her feet game, she head up on them red things
She took me to the back
Introduced me to her head game
Can't trust these bitches
I swear these hoes familiar
She kiss you
But swallow all my children
I swear to God, these hoes be fuckin' anyone
I swear to God, these hoes be fuckin' anyone

Real shit, I ain't worried bout shit 'cause that money shit I chase it
Real shit, I ain't worried 'bout a bitch 'cause half of these bitches be basic
Real shit, I ain't worried bout shit, in the club, getting wasted
Real shit, I ain't worried bout shit, I'm drinkin' liquor, no chaser

That girl looked familiar
Real recognize real, that's familiar
I be ridin' the whip that ain't familiar
Getting to the money, that's familiar
Oh that's familiar
That can't be yo girl, she familiar
If you ain't real we don't feel ya
Say my name to these hoes, that's familiar


I could take yo bitch whenever
All my cars got wood and leather
All I fuck with is 9's and 10's
If she ain't got no ass she got some titties

Got that woo tatted on me, I'ma woo
I don't need no bodygaurd, I'mma shoot ya
Got some money in the cut like I'm Jewish
You ain't got no money homie, then you useless

These niggas hatin' on us, we gotta shoot them
Every time you see me I'm with a new one
Every time you see me, man do nothing
I fucked yo bitch in the trap on the footon

I got a New York bitch, she out of Brooklyn
I gave that dope dick and now she hooked on
She was a good girl so I brought her back
Soon as she fucked up I call the dollar cab

I could take yo bitch whenever
All my cars got wood and leather
All I fuck with is nice titties
If she ain't got no ass she got some titties

I could take yo bitch whenever
All my cars got wood and leather
All I fuck with is nice titties
If she ain't got no ass she got some titties

Bitch I'm on another level
I got my mind made up, I'll never settle
All my bitches bad, ain't nothing special
And if yo bitch out of line she don't expect it
When I pull up on yo block I'm on business
When she with me she ain't thinkin' bout commitment
Said she ain't been with a real one in a minute
I had er in the kitchen water whippin

These niggas tryin' they hardest, you niggas still poor
Hunnit bottles of liq that's what we live for
I'm 'bout them chains and watches that you got robbed for
You got a team of niggas ain't on they job though

My lil bitch from LA stay in the A town
Move that back on that grape how she stay down
Every day I expect the same designer
If you don't know homie, let me remind ya

I could take yo bitch whenever
All my cars got wood and leather
All I fuck with is nice titties
If she ain't got no ass she got some titties

I could take yo bitch whenever
All my cars got wood and leather
All I fuck with is nice titties
If she ain't got no ass she got some titties


I like that
We goin'
Best believe you can catch me at the Beach House from the ocean
Ridin' one of them waves

Now I done seen a lot of things
Know the trouble the money and fame brings
This time I swear it's different
I'm in the right place
I know I'm in the right place
(Fuck with me)

Some niggas hated on me
Some bitches never looked my way
Now that I made it homie
There's some things that'll never be the same
Some things will never be the same
She let me get in her money
Some things will never be the same
Now things will never be the same
Shit, I've been havin' bitches
And they don't never look the same
What the fuck these niggas sayin'?
Some things will never be the same
What the fuck these niggas sayin'?
Some things will never be the same, yeah

Progress is the concept
So let me flex
My oh oh's bout that nonsense
I just love them texts

Even one-night stands get forever set
So so they home girls, sisters and whoever next
I'm sorry, the world may change but some things stay the same as they pass like a tourin

Fuck them bitch niggas that was actin' bitch nigga
See me with my side hoe and toll my main bitch nigga
You's a bitch nigga and now we in the club
Go and fuck it up
And you a huge fan
Tryna introduce yo fam
Takin' flicks for Instagram
You more sketchier than drawings
Can be ridin' on niggas ballin
Like they them alcoholics, we there, wutchu ma call it

Hey there, I wouldn't made it thinkin' 'bout you
Now I'll never think about you
Have nothing to think about

Now I done seen a lot of things
Know the trouble the money and fame brings
This time I swear it's different
I'm in the right place
I know I'm in the right place
(Fuck with me)

Some niggas hated on me
Some bitches never looked my way
Now that I made it homie
There's some things that'll never be the same
Some things will never be the same
She let me get in her money
Some things will never be the same
Now things will never be the same
Shit, I've been havin' bitches
And they don't never look the same
What the fuck these niggas sayin'?
Some things will never be the same
What the fuck these niggas sayin'?
Some things will never be the same, yeah

Uh, look at the man in the mirror
It gets tougher to watch when it's yo self you got a fear of
Plus you surrounded by niggas hatin'
You see it all in they eyes
It makes you wanna fuck some shit up
Tryna make it up out the ghetto
The block is like the Olympics, we walk around with our medals
On the grind for the cheddar so fuck them hoes let 'em chat
The object is to be honest, get dollars and let it stack
That's what it is, hoe

Yeah, things will never be the same
This is my year, hoe
So tell them fuck boys make way

If they hatin' let 'em hate
I'm just happy that I made it, got that yola
Got 'em rockin' and Jay rockin' on them stages
I guess I'm in the right place
I guess I'm in the right place
Roll it up and fade away


Wiz Khalifa:
I got a lotta cash
I don't mind spending it

The Weeknd:
Do you like the way I flick my tongue or nah?
You can ride my face until you're dripp'in cum
Can you lick the tip then throat the dick or nah?
Can you let me stretch that pussy out or nah?
I'm not the type to call you back tomorrow
But the way you wrappin 'round me is a prob
Ain't nobody tryna save ya
Baby, get that paper
Probably got a lot of other bitches owe you favors
Pussy so good, I had to save that shit for later
Took her to the kitchen, fucked her right there on the table
She repping XO to the death, I'm tryna make these bitches sweat
I'm tryna keep that pussy wet, I'm tryna fuck her and her friends

Ty Dolla $ign:
You gonna run it for these hundreds girl or nah?
Show me is you really 'bout your money girl or nah?
Don't play with a boss, girl take it off
Take it for a real one
You gonna get it all

Ty Dolla $ign:
Is you really 'bout your money or nah?
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah
Can you really take dick or nah?
Can I bring another bitch or nah?
Is you with the shits or nah?
Oh nah, oh nah
Would you ride for a nigga or nah?
Would you die for a nigga or nah?
Would you lie to a nigga or nah?
Oh nah

Wiz Khalifa:
I'ma smoke this joint then I'ma break you off
I be lying if I said you ain't the one
All these tattoos in my skin, they turn you on
Lotta smoking, drinking, that's the shit I'm on
Heard you not the type that you take home to Mom
Is we fucking when we leave the club or nah?
I ain't spending cash for nothing, I wanna see you take it off
I'ma pop this bottle, you gon' give me brain or nah?
Heard you from the hood, you rep that thing or nah?
Got a lotta ass, you gonna shake that thing or nah?
Heard you smoke blunts, you down with paper planes or nah?
I feel like I'm Tony, you my boss? I'm thinking nah
The whole world, I take it on

Ty Dolla $ign:
Girl, make that ass clap for young dollar sign
You already know my money go a long time
I could slide for it, like Nelly
I'ma go as far as you let me
Girl, is you sucking me or fucking me or nah?
Can I bring another bitch? Let's have a threesome
Keep saying you's a freak, you gon' prove it or nah?
His bitch keep looking at me, she choosing or nah?
You a ride-or-die chick, you with this shit or nah?
Say you not a side bitch, you all-in or nah?
You gon' make them eggs cheesy with them grits or nah?
Can you do it like that, on this dick or nah?


"Stone-hard, machine gun
Firing at the ones who run
Stone-hard, machine gun
Bulletproof glass"

L.A., can't believe I found love in the city of L.A
L.A., it's the city of angels, they can take you anywhere
In L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A., we found, found love in L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A
We found love

In the city of the gang bang
Yeah, we still dying over red and blue strings
Chuck my set up and it feel good
Cause don't nobody love you more than your neighborhood
We always had bitches, we don't love those
Grew up around the gangsters and the cutthroats
Be careful where you at, you might get bust on
Yeah, all my South Central niggas, Inglewood, twist your fingers up
Compton and Watts, Eastside, always turning up
Bad bitches up at Greystone and Supper Club
Tell 'em where we're from like

L.A., can't believe I found love in the city of L.A
L.A., it's the city of angels, they can take you anywhere
In L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A., we found, found love in L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A
We found love

God, let me right my wrongs, God, let me write this song
God in the middle with a mark
Let me hit a pawn shop, momma said we need a loan
God, let me dedicate this to the 80% that ain't never coming home
God, let me know you exist
In a city where a hundred hollow-tips get thrown
I'm off that Centennial
Fuckin' at the party, nigga, at the party, we fade ten or more
My hood came thinkin' we yellin', "We in this bitch"
Then we yellin', "We in your bitch"
Or you tellin' all of us our dwellin' inside of 2Pacolypse, thug life
And we off that whoopty-whoopty-whoop
And we in that hoopty with the two choppers
So we're guaranteed to shoot
Lock us in the L.A. County zoo
Watch us eat a bear alive and, ooh this feels so good to keep it true
This feels so good, I'm keepin' you
Hope I'm teachin' you all the lessons I learned
When I made that turn off the 110
Watch that marijuana just burn
This shit just make you wanna just sin
See that Staples Center high yearnin' if the Lakers get me a win
I'm gon' liquor shot in memory of Pac, Makaveli live again
Bitch, I'm in L.A. yeah, yeah, motherfucker

L.A., can't believe I found love in the city of L.A
L.A., it's the city of angels, they can take you anywhere
In L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A., we found, found love in L.A., L.A., L.A., L.A
We found love


Errytime they see me ballin'
All my old bitches callin'
Pull up in exotic, I see a little bitch jockin'

Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Yeah!

No I won't save her
Dolla $ign a fuckboi he won't date her
About my paper, real big shit man everything Taylor
Vans on like a skater
We eatin' over here, man, everything catered
She know I'm a player
She wanna fuck now but I wanna fuck later
She been lookin' for a baller (baller, baller, baller, baller)
Somebody that'll keep her in designer
She ain't thinkin' 'bout love (Ooh)
She got her mind on my money
Can't get a damn thing from me

Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Yeah!

Look up in the sky, it's a bird, it's a plane
What's that nigga name? Captain-Save-A-Ho man
He ain't me and I ain't him
He a bozo, I'm a real one
She take after her auntie, got her mind on my money
Tattoo on her tummy, booty hella chunky
Every time I see her, she look nicer and nicer
Haters throw shade like a sun visor
I told her that I'm broke, can't throw her half of my guap
Bitch I ain't Rescue Ronnie, I ain't captain save a thot
Bitch, bitch, bitch, bitch, bitch
Make me rich, follow my commands and I'll grant you a wish
I'm just a real one from the gravel, from the soil, the mud
And some of my thugs ain't never been to a club
She ain't looking for love, she just wanna take a ride with the plug 'cause she...

Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Yeah!

Errytime they see me ballin'
All my old bitches callin'
Pull up in exotic, I see a little bitch jockin'

Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Tryna get saved, she wanna get saved, I ain't gonna save her
Yeah!


I'ma tell you straight up
Do yourself a favor
Them feelings, don't catch those
Feelings don't catch those

I don't really want much
I ain't with the drama
Save it for your man, girl
If it ain't money I don't wanna know

I'ma tell you straight up
Do yourself a favor
Them feelings, don't catch those
Feelings don't catch those

Your man he a ball boy (damn)
Girl, why you still messin' with old boy? (I'm just saying)
He can't get you what you want
(I mean how that working out though)
Say he be talking too much
And you know hoes gon' be hoes
And what you need is you a real one, a real one
Let you go out with your day one's
Without the holler and screaming
Just have you hollering, moaning
In the morning, wake your ass up so we can do it again
Let your grow, experiment
Don't judge, don't act like a
You say that love ain't loved on that dude lately
I know that, that's the reason your nigga hate me
Since you got that real thing, that real thing
Girl don't start to feel things, like feelings, yeah

I'ma tell you straight up
Do yourself a favor
Them feelings, don't catch those
Feelings don't catch those

Girl that thing so good, I done told you I love it, damn (aww damn)
Don't mind me, sometimes I get carried away, oh I
And that thing was so good I done said let's get married, damn
You can't blame me, we had that Jagged Edge plan

Meet me at the bar in you white dress
In your white dress, in that dress
Meet me at the bar in you white dress
In your white dress, in that dress

I'ma tell you straight up
Do yourself a favor
Them feelings, don't catch those
Feelings don't catch those

Rappers Ty Dolla $ign and YG allegedly beat down a guy for cramping their VIP style in an Australian night club, Sunday night. Rappers performed at Eve night club in Melbourne. Police say a club goer is accusing them of punching and kicking him in the head in a dispute over their turf. The alleged victim claims he was hanging in the VIP area when the rappers and their crews rolled in trying to shove everyone else out. The victim says when he refused to budge, they unloaded on him and chased him outside. Cops eventually arrived and shutdown the club. No one else got arrested, but we're told they're now investigating the alleged assault


I got my money up
These women all down
As soon as I touch down in they city
Man, they all coming out
They love me in New York
And down South
They know I'm from the Westside
And I stay with the loud

Big kush, long money
Bad girls, real niggas here with me
Everywhere I go, you know I'm solid
A1 with these girls, you know I'm solid
Hunnid with my bros, you know I'm solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it
Oh, I'm solid
Everywhere I go, your boy solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it
Big kush, long money
Bad chicks, real niggas here with me

Snitching on your homies, that ain't solid
Tricking, she ain't yours, that ain't solid
She a minor in an Audi
Wouldn't give that ass a dollar
She said, "Don't you got a million dollars?"
I told her "Stay up out my pocket"
Stay the eff from 'round me
You can miss me with that false shit
You ain't drop none on this

Big kush, long money
Bad girls, real niggas here with me
Everywhere I go, you know I'm solid
A1 with these girls, you know I'm solid
Hunnid with my bros, you know I'm solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it
Oh, I'm solid
Everywhere I go, your boy solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it
Big kush, long money
Bad chicks, real niggas here with me

I got my money up
These women all down
And every time I touch down in they city
Man, they all coming out
Aye, they on the way
Yeah, they on the way
When they pull up, we gon' celebrate
Celebrate, we gon' celebrate
Hey, cause today was a good day

Big kush, long money
Bad chicks, real niggas here with me
Everywhere I go, you know I'm solid
A1 with these girls, you know I'm solid
Hunnid with my bros, you know I'm solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it
Oh, I'm solid
Everywhere I go, you know I'm solid
I guess you wouldn't know nothing 'bout it

Hello? Hello?
(Yeah, what's the deal, what up?)
Aye, what up, what up, what up?
Shit, nigga, I been calling you like three days, nigga
Three days and shit, you haven't been picking up the phone, the fuck
(Yeah, man, the homies took off on the police and they got us on lock down,
They ran up in a nigga's field, slashed his crib, nigga fell off)
Damn, you know I got you, fool
They took your whole shit, though?
(Yeah, they took everything, but nigga be straight
You all right, though?)
Yeah, I'm whatever, man, I'm doing this album shit right now, man
(I miss you, man)
I miss you, too, fool. What you on, though?
(Man, I'm tryna hop on this album!)


Got a girl name 'Mica in Chicago
Another one named Patrice in Toronto
Lil' mama name 'Nana up in Utah
Got a girl name Maria down in New York

I told give me something good I might come back
I snap my fingers they be on me just like that
They know the way that I'm living ain't right
You just another girl and this is just another night
Yeah

Horses in the stable, horses in the stable (Yeah)
That I can ride, ooh anytime (Yeah)
Horses in the stable, horses in the stable (Yeah)
That I can ride, ooh anytime
Yeah, yeah

Lil baby name Pearl god damn
Got a bitch named Nicki, pussy like quicksand suck me in
Catherine Anne Katrina, we met in Catalina
Took it down that night, was the last time I seen her

I told give me something good I might come back
I snap my fingers they be on me just like that
They know the way that I'm living ain't right
You just another girl and this is just another night
Yeah

Horses in the stable, horses in the stable
That I can ride, ooh anytime (Yeah)
Horses in the stable, horses in the stable (Yeah)
That I can ride, ooh anytime

She said she lookin' for a real one
I told her that she found a real one
Said she looking for relationships
I said girl who you playin' with
But if you give me some good I'll come back
If you give some good I'll come back
But I ain't tryin' to stay though
Nah girl I said it happens everyday oh

Horses in the stable, horses in the stable
That I can ride, ooh anytime (Yeah)
Horses in the stable, horses in the stable (Yeah)
That I can ride, ooh anytime


You have four new messages
Main menu: To listen to your messages press one
First new message: "Hey Ty it's Precious, I had a really good time the other night and I'm just, you know calling, to let you know so hit me back"
Next message: "Hey Ty, again, it's me Precious, still ain't heard back from you, I know you busy though, call me back when you get a chance"
Next message: "Hey Ty it's been about two weeks, two minutes and five seconds and I haven't from you"
Next message: "Hey it's Precious again nigga call me the motherfucking back! it's the third time I left my kiddo in my momma's house and I ain't heard from yo' ass talking 'bout some motherfucking paranoid nigga, you ain't seen paranoid

I was stroking, in the morning
When my other bitch came through unexpected
She was tripping, I was naked
I didn't answer the door she kept banging
I was high on the molly (High)
I wasn't even prepared for the drama (Drama)
She grabbed her heels and her robe
She stashed that bag and crept up out the backdoor

I didn't even get to know ya
I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I did-I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya

Ain't this a bitch
Ain't this some shit
Bangin' on the door, I'm on the floor bangin' her ribs
What's your name? Forgot to ask her
This generation hella backwards
I didn't get to know ya, but you gave me that ass first
Tell me beat it like a master
Damn I'm mad at her
She just little obsessed I guess
I'm just a little bit stressed I guess
I can't believe it's real right now
Imagine how she feel right now
She dipped out so quick, ya so pissed I'm like:
Hol' up

Damn we just meet last night
Girl I don't even really know ya
But nigga got you coming Northside
Nah you fucking, goddamn I didn't even get to know ya

I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I did-I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya

Look what we done started
Look what we done started
I didn't even, I ain't get to know ya
You ain't going for it
No, no, no, no, I call you forward it
Say you movin' on (Say that you movin')
Say don't call no more

I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I didn't ev-, I didn't, I didn't even get to know ya
I did-I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya
I didn't get to know ya


Can't let 'em take your spirit
Never let 'em take your soul

Sister don't let your guard down
You know there's more out there waiting for you
Hell naw, no, sister don't let your guard down
You've come way, way too far now
Lesson learned, lesson learned
Lessons learned, lessons learned, lessons learned
May your future last long, past, present
Faith, love, hold on to heaven
One hand up, hold onto heaven
God bless us with every second on earth
Same as the legend was told
To my ears at 5 years old
Sister don't let your guard down
You've got too much shit goin' on yeah
But I know you've been workin' through all that
Know you, I know you've been goin' through it your whole life
And I say, brother don't let your guards down
Parties are starting right now
Know you've been workin' that body all night
But it's 3 AM and we 'bout to go up again
It's 3 AM and we're just starting again
It's 3 AM and we're just starting again
Sister don't let your guard down
I know you've been working hard now
Brother don't let your guard down
Nah, nah, nah
And the fight not over, the fight just beginning
The lies get exposed, soon as you win it
The devil is smiling
The guy keeps on sinning
Don't let them take over the heart of then, no
Sister don't let your guard down
It's 'bout to get hard now
And brother don't let your love go
Support her in the best way you know how
Love on your woman, stand by your brother
Hold on to your loved ones
I know we've all lost some
Pray before rain falls, the devils are coming
They don't share the love but they're up to something
(I know it, I know that they're up to something
I know, I know it, that they're up to something)
So, sister don't let your guard down
Shit's about to get hard now
Brother don't let them on now
Protect them the best way you know how
(The best way that you know
The best way that you know, the best way that you know how)
Brother (Protect her the best way that you know
The best way that you know, he best way that you know how)

Sometimes when you have something, it's like you take it for granted. And sometimes something loves you and you don't love it back. See right now wish you was here. I wish you was here so I could hold you down. I wish you was here so you could hold me down. This to my brother, this to my sister, this to my Queen

What y'all smoking on though?
Got some OG right now, some Dolla $ign OG. This shit flight nigga
Oh my gawd, hey you believe this? God damn
I got the uh Wiz Khalifa uh...
Khalifa Kush, KK?
Yeah the nah the Wiz Khalifa little cones 'n shit


That ass she walkin' round with is sitting pretty
I can't tell if it's real or not but it's sitting pretty
Forgiatos on the whip that be sitting pretty
Rollie on the wrist that be sitting pretty
Sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty
Throwing 100's and 50's if she pretty
If she pretty, sitting pretty

Bae go shopping every weekend
Bae be killin' all these hoes, they be mad
They just jealous, bae gon' stunt when she pull up
Bae gone hop out then walk in then go up
Drink a little somethin' then pour up
From the city everybody know us
And me and Young Khalifa, nigga hold up
Little momma said "how you stay so high but be so focused"
Shit, I guess I'm the man, I feel like the man
I came with my dogs, we takin' no losses
We stuck to the band, I can't be your man

All that ass you walkin' round with is sitting pretty
I can't tell if it's real or not but it's sitting pretty
Forgiatos on the whip that be sitting pretty
Rollie on the wrist that be sitting pretty
Sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty
Throwing 100's and 50's if she pretty
If she pretty, sitting pretty

Hoes in my section I gotta go old school collection
Rollin' up dope, wrappin' smoke my profession
My Rollie just won the election
Pull up, drop the top, hit the swish
Let it drop, stop and smoke out the whole intersection
I roll with protection
Pull up to the club late as fuck just to sow my investments
Send emojis, y'all hoes get the message
Randy Moss is for sure a reception
Talk to God so I know it's a blessin'
Rollin' up on the phone, playin' Tekken
And the front got the batteries chargin'
And the kitchen got two bitches chefin'
One stuffin' clothes, one undressin'
I'm gettin' this money, finessin'
Know what I'm sayin'?

All that ass you walkin' round with is sitting pretty
I can't tell if it's real or not but it's sitting pretty
Forgiatos on the whip that be sitting pretty
Rollie on the wrist that be sitting pretty
Sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty, sitting pretty
Throwing 100's and 50's if she pretty
If she pretty, sitting pretty


Dolla $ign, Dolla
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Oh oh

I got more money than your nigga do
Girl you ain't worry 'bout it
We be still fuckin' around and I got a bitch too
You ain't worry 'bout it
Oh oh oh, we ain't worry 'bout it
Yeah, 'cause we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gone fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya
Girl we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gone fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya
Yeah, yeah, yeah

You said that sorry ass nigga ain't hit it right
I came through, I fucked all on you, had you feelin' right
I brought the weed, you had the drank
We got dumb lit
We turned the music up loud so they can't hear
'Cause you be loud as a bitch when I'm deep in that shit
If my bitch find out I be pleadin' the fifth
Why your home girls say we pull off in the four
Them bitches ain't got any money
Them bitches can't tell you nothing

I got more money than your nigga do
Girl you ain't worry 'bout it
We be still fuckin' around and I got a bitch too
You ain't worry 'bout it
Oh oh oh, we ain't worry 'bout it
'Cause we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gon' fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya (we gon' fuck)
Girl we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gon' fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya
Yeah, yeah, yeah

We be goin' all night girl
Droppin' them drawers, puttin' holes in the walls
You a freak and I like that girl
Come ride with a boss, pull a check at the mall
So you can leave your man at home
I'm just tryna play baby, I ain't tryna waste no time
We ain't got all day baby, hit it then I press rewind
Won't you come my way baby
Got way more money than y'all
Nigga ain't got no bank, baby
Sneak up from behind 'em, dancing while we singing
You ain't never met a nigga like me
Girl you know my name baby

I got more money than your nigga do
Girl you ain't worry 'bout it
We be still fuckin' around and I got a bitch too
You ain't worry 'bout it
Oh oh oh, we ain't worry 'bout it
'Cause we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gon' fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya (we gone fuck)
Girl we gon' fuck when I see ya (girl we gon' fuck)
All we do is fuck when I see ya
Yeah, yeah, yeah


I brought my niggas, it was only right
Bought a new whip, it was only right
Bad bitch, but it's only right
Twenty bottles in the club and it's only right
Same friends, but it's only right
All my niggas rich, man, it's only right
Get it how you live, man, it's only right
Broke bread with my bitch, man, it's only right

Yeah, it's only right that I ball
Only right that all my ex-bitches call, yeah, it's only right
If a nigga ever try
Only right if a nigga gotta die, yeah, it's only right
It's only right we on top
All you copycat niggas, stop, man, that ain't right
It's only right that I gas
Only right I still whoop a niggas ass, yeah, it's only

It's only right she fuck with a nigga like me
It's only right I fucked a bitch in my Nikes
It's only right that I fuck her all night, give her pipe
Have her fucked up saying, 'Alright'
Ay, it's TeeCee the loc
She say my dick big, but she still will not choke
I hit that, get ghost, run around in that Ghost
Run a red light, so close
And I might throw couple dollars if I see her working that pole

I brought my niggas, it was only right
Bought a new whip, it was only right
Bad bitch, but it's only right
Twenty bottles in the club and it's only right
Same friends, but it's only right
All my niggas rich, man, it's only right
Get it how you live, man, it's only right
Broke bread with my bitch, man, it's only right

Yeah, it's only right where my flag be
All fuckin' red, bitch, I get it from my daddy
It's only right I'm a whoop
It's only fuckin' right if I fuck, you was cute
Niggas only right if the money be long
And it don't feel right if the condom was on
But it's only right, I got one night
I give her 'Murder Was the Case' like Suge Knight

See, me, see, me, I act a fool in that pussy
Virgin bitches run, so I'm bool in that puss
That new Ghost 'bout three hun'ed
Nine hun'ed cash and it feel like I ain't spend nothin'
It was only right they gave me half a mil
That was only one deal, that shit got me the chills, nigga
No drive-throughs to buy foods, no dinner tables
But me Ty, Mustard all got mils, nigga

I brought my niggas, it was only right
Bought a new whip, it was only right
Bad bitch, but it's only right
Twenty bottles in the club and it's only right
Same friends, but it's only right
All my niggas rich, man, it's only right
Get it how you live, man, it's only right
Broke bread with my bitch, man, it's only right

It's only right, I'm a fuck a bad bitch tonight
Girl, you got just what I want
Let me give it to you, girl, put it on me

I brought my niggas, it was only right
Bought a new whip, it was only right
Bad bitch, but it's only right
Twenty bottles in the club and it's only right
Same friends, but it's only right
All my niggas rich, man, it's only right
Get it how you live, man, it's only right
Broke bread with my bitch, man, it's only right


Is it recording? Alright, hahah

I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face

My whip dripping, too much candy in my paint
Bitches they love RD
They watch me, they love me, they need me like nicotine
Fresher than most, straight off the boat
Counting my dough
Just a red head boy from the city, Versace robe
On me like I'm Diddy
One hand on her titty
Other gripping money
Lifes so sweet right now
Better lock down your hoe
Before I come through your town
Living so profound
Watch them hate me now
Bitches used to talk down
Now they ride like Greyhound
They ride like greyhounds 'cause I did 'em in and out

I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face

I be loaded, too many pistols on my waist
Let a fuck nigga try me, find me a skrrt
I'ma go, I'ma go straight to his house
Gold on my mouth
Coming straight from the south
Me, I look pop right now
Water dripping, someone give me a towel
Man I took off, someone gave me a roll
Good lean when I fuck on yo hoe
Shout out to Roll, that's my big bro
Who is these niggas? Man, nobody knows
Nigga get mad, I put dick in his hoe
Wrap it up, body bagging his hoe, hoe, woah

I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face
I be dripping, too much water on my face

And it's too much water
Dripping, man it's too much water
Splash, too much water
We too fly, dripping too much water
Too much sauce, we dripping too much water
Lil Yachty drip too much water
Your hoe tryna drink my water


She said "I can't fuck with him, he way too picky"
I just spilled a pint of lean on all my Dickies
I got 30 bitches in the Appalachians
Mountain, as the time ticks, they acting weirder
Check my tag, the numbers count on all my sweaters
Boy, that's Margiela
Nigga you know you ain't counting cheddar
Ask your baby girl who fuck her better
Bitch it's 20-15, it's Trick Daddy
Whippin' niggas like the slave master
20 karats in my left wrist, I'm a youth pastor
Sliding down your city real slow
Braids out with the rare 'fro
With the platinum teeth, nigga good grief
When a nigga smile all you see is bling
Chef Master when I start up beef
Got these niggas hating 'cause I mm, damn
Niggas hating 'cause I'm flexing harder
Quick to run it up like Tiki Barber
Chopper make a nigga think smarter
Chopper make a nigga second guess
Is this nigga here really my nigga, or am I just trying hard to impress?
Hmm, now he thinking
Diamonds sparkle got these niggas blinking
Chardo-Sunday nights, momma drinking
Demon soul inside a holy heaven

I'm in this ditch like a camper
Creeping, late night in I'm a vamper
Don't let my young boys attack you
I'm with that shit like a pamper
They say that they trick but I'm Damper
When I'm in that bed it ain't Tamper
These niggas be creeping like cancer
She jump on my pole like a lancer
I'm red-on-red look like I'm Prancer
Dib and dabbing in the London cabbie, boy that yappa-chopper started thunder clapping
Nigga rah-rah like a dungeon dragon
And a cra-cra if you think you capping
But my 'migos stamping me a newer package
I'ma ship it over to an Egypt palace
Sippin' lean out a golden chalice
While he looking like a fucking salad
You could see the karats in the band of children
I'm across the water looking like a pilgrim
Money, money, what an open feeling
Y'all been watching looking like a thriller
Always street-whippin' looking like I'm Tigger
Boy that new thing looking like Shakira
And she give thanks like we in November


I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night
I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night

I know you want this for life
Fuck you so good you be calling out the Christ
Bottles of the Tech got it laid on ice
We spent four seasons at the Four Seasons twice
You be calling all your homegirls like "I'm his wife"
Hell nah, you trippin', reevaluate your life
I can't love no bitch, every single ho is trife
I sip dirty Sprite just to get me through the night
But I need you there
Promise that I need you there
Ain't no other bitch gon' fuck me like you do I swear
Put that on my gang I swear
I just can't put you on front street like you want I know
But baby you is not no ho
And I put it on my gang I'm not no average joe
It's Yachty from the block you know

I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night
I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night

Don't you tell no one, no, no, no baby don't you tell no one
We gon' keep this just between us, we gon' have some fun
Fuck until the mornin' come, when the mornin' come, I'll make you cum
But then then I gotta run, cause baby, I got shit to do
Stack my bread up, fuck ya head up, that's just what I'll do
Chillin' on my avenue
If you ain't remember, I remember, girl
That's where I first met you
You had you a drink or two
You came over half and sober callin' me your boo
Then you turned around and fucked the crew
I got no love for you

I can't have no wife, one night
You want this for life
But, I can't I can't have no wife
No wife, no, no wife
Just one night, one night
I can't, can't have no wife
I know you want this for life
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for one night

I just want you for one night
A night, you want this for life, but no
No, no, no
I can't have no wife


I put diamonds on my necklace
I just had a bitch eat my dick up for breakfast
I'm on now
I got all these bitches and in my phone now
All I do is call and they come then they cum
'Cause I'm on now
'Cause I'm on now, yeah, aye
All these niggas tryna call my phone but don't call me
Aye, yeah, woah, aye, yeah

I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with, I don't fuck with, I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas

I don't fuck with niggas
That's why I buck on niggas
And I'm stuck with mine
It's my time to shine damn, I might fuck your bitch
Watch me lane switch
Pull up in that Beamer
Aye, I keep that steam in case a nigga try me
Call me Dej Loaf
Bitch I'm Lil Boat
They call me the GOAT, damn
Give your bitch a stroke
All these niggas jokes
'Cause I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas

I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with, I don't fuck with, I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas
I don't fuck with niggas


I don't fuck around with these new dudes
Yeah, all these niggas squares like a GameCube

Yeah, niggas talkin' crazy, they'll get sent for
Yeah, I said that I meant that it's done for, damn
Aye, fold a nigga up like the trifold
Niggas see me comin' with a blindfold
Yeah, all these niggas scared of my appearance
Yeah, these niggas old season, it's on clearance
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's boat time
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's my time

Aye, I just doubled up on my life status
Got a bad white bitch that look like Trish Stratus
Live forever for my gang like the Wu-Tang
Man these bitches always come back like a boomerang
Yeah, speakin' of a ring, I need 5 gang
Over nights is how I tripped off my double play
Yeah, and I did this shit by my damn self
Stayed up over night plannin' all my meal real
So I dare a pussy nigga to try to knock me off
I got his bitch gettin' wetter off this Smirnoff

Yeah, niggas talkin' crazy, they'll get sent for
Yeah, I said that I meant that it's done for, damn
Aye, fold a nigga up like the trifold
Niggas see me comin' with a blindfold
Yeah, all these niggas scared of my appearance
Yeah, these niggas old season, it's on clearance
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's boat time
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's my time

Niggas stealin' sauce, that's a new crime
I can't fuck with all these niggas tryna steal shine, damn
Let a nigga shine 'cause I'm up next
Oh wait, I'm up now, I'm stackin' your checks, damn
All these niggas hatin' on the lil now
Whoa, why these niggas hatin' on Lil Boat now?
Damn, I'mma stack it up, tell it tip over
Yeah, she gon' suck me up till I spill over
I'm just speakin' real true facts though
Nigga want no wrong promise
He gon' get it clapped though, damn
I ain't talkin' lies, this the truth now
Young nigga, it's Lil Boat my 100's blue now, whoa

Yeah, niggas talkin' crazy, they'll get sent for
Yeah, I said that I meant that it's done for, damn
Aye, fold a nigga up like the trifold
Niggas see me comin' with a blindfold
Yeah, all these niggas scared of my appearance
Yeah, these niggas old season, it's on clearance
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's boat time
Yeah, niggas need to make way 'cause it's my time


Haters gon' hate
You know ugh that's what Haters do, You know
If you got haters you doing something right

Aye, I just bought some new teeth for the shine
I just bought a new watch 'cause it was time
I've been flexin' on all my old dimes
I've been flexin' on all my old ex's

I might pull up to the vip in a Lexus
I might fuck a new bitch out in Texas
Whoa, Lil Yachty on a boat yeah
She know I get it for the low
That's why they all call my phone
When I get on, you gon' reach for your phone, yeah
And I just got some new diamonds in my teeth
I'm about to go fuck up the VIP

I just got some new teeth for the shine
I just bought a new house 'cause it was time
I've been flexin' on all my old dimes
I've been flexin' on all my old ex's
I've been flexin' on all my old ex's
I might pull up to the scene in a Lexus
I just bought some new teeth 'cause it's the shine
I just bought a new watch 'cause it was time

A nigga way to fly, shit should be a crime
She used to call me now she see that's it's my time
Whoa, these bitches see I'm getting money
Now they all want some from me
But hell nah I don't fuck with y'all
I stay to my day ones that's my fucking dogs
I done ran a sack up with my bros
Middle fingers up to all you dusty hoes

Aye, I just bought some new teeth for the shine
I just bought a new watch 'cause it was time
I've been flexin' on all my old dimes
I've been flexin' on all my old ex's


You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat

'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, ridin' 'round on boulders
Money sittin' up, it sits way above your shoulders
I was eatin' pork and rinds with a bitch from New York Times
I don't eat no pork and rinds but that bitch was mighty fine
I got gold all on my necklace, tatted up my arms
Now my mama think I'm reckless, got guns under my mattress
I was juggin since a youngin', free my older cousin Reesey
He from Hamilton not D.C, I rock N.Bs like I'm Gleeshy
Flip phone banging off the walls, Gucci on my drawers
Why the fuck you in these streets if you're scared of them four walls?
I was strokin' on your sister, she was callin' me her mister
She suck dick for a picture, it's Lil Yachty nice to meet you
I was juggin' off them stacks, countin' up them racks
Almost had a lifetime sentence, but I beat it, shout out to Pat!
Pat, that's my lawyer, he got me off them chargers
8 stacks for that boy, he took care of the boy

Cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota


Lean, still get it from the Gusto
Young hot head man, cut throat
All these nat nats on don't go
Kick back and serve up them O's
Uh
Skr, skr, skrt, skrt
Uh, skrt, uh, skrt
Uh, uh
Skrt, skrt

Pull up on your block and we squirting nines
Niggas wanna duke it, this the right time
Counting up, counting up hella bands
Using my guap as a face fan
K$upreme, that's my right hand
Niggas mobbing deep like a Taliban
Right now I'm a Harlem boy but Lil Yachty from Atlantastan
Stack the cheddar cheese on my night stand
If my money low then watch your life man
Lean, still get it from the Gusto
Young hot head man cutthroat
All these nat-nats on dumb go
Kick back and serve out them O's
Niggas strapped up like Girbauds
I just hopped out on them 4's
Bloody bandana my bros
But cuzzy bandana my woes
Bought bank and I bang on fo's
All these fuck niggas is hoes
He better not knock on my door
I bust a cap in his throat
I put a dick in his hoe
I might just flip out them O's
I just dropped weed on my toes
Brought my niggas 'round your hoe
Let 'em run train on ya wife
We pass that pussy all night
Then we stack it tall as kites
Nigga try me that's his life

Hella O's, I been counting hella O's
Money stacking tall like Legos
I been counting hella O's, hella O's
Hella O's, I been counting hella O's
Money stacking tall like Legos
Told my plug I need a whole fix, serving off O's
I could flip a brick
Hella O's, hella O's
I been moving hella O's
Young RD counting hella O's

Big full Chevy boy check out the candy paint canary
Yellow diamonds in my pinky ring
(Plug)
20 band juug's I could ball
I could ball, I could ball
Like 30 chains
All these bitches love me like I'm Jesus
Old money same age as Regis
But that shit long like R. Kelly
Fuck around and put shots in your belly
Told that hoe to meet me at the telly
I can never ever fold
RD be counting big O's
I been counting bank rolls
Money make her touch her toes
Money got me the hoes
Money got a nigga right
I be sipping dirty sprite

Hella O's, I been counting hella O's
Money stacking tall like Legos
I been counting hella O's, hella O's
Hella O's, I been counting hella O's
Money stacking tall like Legos
Told my plug I need a whole fix, serving off O's
I could flip a brick
Hella O's, hella O's
I been moving hella O's
Young RD counting hella O's


I see him lookin', she lookin'
I see them lookin', they lookin'
I see her lookin', he lookin'
All the hoes lookin' at Yachty
I see her lookin', he lookin'
I see him lookin', hate lookin'
I see her lookin', she lookin'
All them boys wanna be Yachty

All them boys wanna be Yachty
I kick like karate my ice is on freeze
24 karat the gold on my mouth
It's so shiny that shit look like cheese
Before she suck me and fuck me every time I swear to God she sayin' please
I put that bitch on her knees
Shout out my nigga Dior
Christian Dior on my back
When I'm fuckin' these hoes I got gas in my pores
Lil Boat I'm runnin' for mayor
Flex with the chopper in Decatur
I fuck her now fuck her later
Young nigga crispy like tatters
You a fry I'm a potato
You my son like you Steve Nash

I see him lookin', she lookin'
I see them lookin', they lookin'
I see her lookin', he lookin'
All the hoes lookin' at Yachty
I see her lookin', he lookin'
I see him lookin', hate lookin'
I see her lookin', she lookin'
All them boys wanna be Yachty

Been had the braids in my head
Bitch they used to be black
They was callin' me Rocky
So I went and dyed 'em red
Red dot to his head
And it's still fuck the feds
Rick Owens on my legs
Tatted my arms and my body
Cool at the crib with the shotty
If a nigga want to try me
Shit on that boy like a potty
Lil Boat I'm a hot commodity
I take a piss on your property
I give a fuck if you rock with me
I run the youth ain't no stoppin' me
Post on the block with my Glock on me
And I count up like the clock on me

I see him lookin', she lookin'
I see them lookin', they lookin'
I see her lookin', he lookin'
All the hoes lookin' at Yachty
I see her lookin', he lookin'
I see him lookin', hate lookin'
I see her lookin', she lookin'
All them boys wanna be Yachty


If you know like a know then you know that I know that niggas be hating
I can't wait 'til the day I call up moms and tell mama, I made it
I can't wait 'til the day I call up all of the people that hated
I fucked that bitch then I passed her to bro 'cause I know that you hate it
Can't wait 'til I make it
Fuck waiting, shit I'm finna take it

Why do these niggas be hating, these niggas be hating, these niggas be hating
I don't give a fuck about the politics, don't give a fuck about debating
Me and my brother be balling like Eli and motherfucking Peyton
All of these diamonds on Yachty, these diamonds on me, all these diamonds be skating
I watch my brother jump out the front door, he whip that pot with that bacon
Aye aye, and my bitch ass fat, I told that bitch never to stop eating bacon
How many niggas you know count that shit up like lil boat?
How many niggas you know get that shit straight off the boat?
Niggas think we ain't balling, shit they better check the score
All of my niggas be shooting, they bust that shit straight at your throat
And they think that everything funny, I see why all these niggas jokes
I sit courtside with my brothers, I sleep in Versace covers
I fuck with that bitch with no rubber, don't give a fuck about another
I promise I do not love her, fuck her then dump her, I do not cuff her, no

If you know like a know then you know that I know that niggas be hating
I can't wait 'til the day I call up moms and tell mama, I made it
I can't wait 'til the day I call up all of the people that hating
I fucked that bitch then I passed her to bro 'cause I know that you hate it
Can't wait 'til I make it
Fuck waiting, shit I'm finna take it


Hey Mr. Grumpy Gills
When life get's you down you know what you got to do
I don't know what you got to do when life gets you down
Just keep swimming, just keep swimming
Just keep swimming, swimming, swimming
Dory, no singing
What do we do we swim
Ho ho ho ho ho ho ho I love to swim
Dory, Dory
When you want to swim

Oh, okay. Where? Oh, you want me to sit right here? Look right there?
Okay, alright. I got it. Well, hello folks, Darnell Boat here.
Today, I'mma tell you a little story about my two nephews:
Lil Yachty and Lil Boat.
Well, I don't know where to start. Look, here's Lil Boat now...

Lil Boat!
I got these strange voices inside my head
Keep a stack and .380 beside my bed
Not to be cool, but in case they run up on me
If y'all bet on my fam, clutch with double on me
Went to school on a dirt road with black hoes and potholes
This shit was just then, this was four months
Late nights with gang on them store hunts
Loitering Walmart for pure fun
Look at me now, all of my classmates like, "Wow"
My teachers like, "Damn"
I remember I didn't have not a fan
Now I step out and Lil Boat is the man
Woah, this shit is so real
Pockets stuffed in with blue bills
So much people trying to ask how it feels
But, nigga, I don't know
Everyday I ball like finger roll
How you do it? Only God know
I want to know who's real until the time fold
People looking at Lil Boat with their hands out 'cause I'm wearing nicer clothes
I'mma stay down with the same niggas I came up with that's the master plan
26 for a nigga hand, diamonds so cold you might need a fan
I don't know who I am sometimes
I might rap a verse, I might sing a song
Came up overnight from one song
One night get her out the thong
Old heads hating on Boat 'cause I'm young as fuck and I'm rich as hell
Pants low like I'm fresh in jail
But I've been out, motherfuck 12

"See, he's a little, he's a little bit more aggressive.
Well you know, as this story unfolds, and you know what I'm saying...
As the story gets told, I'll tell you a little bit more about Yachty.
He's a little bit nicer. Let's call him."
Hello? Hello?

Oh, oh, oh
Hello Boat, it's so nice to meet you
I'm so glad you came
Hello, hello
What's popping? It's Lil Yachty, I'm in the party
I need three thotties to come suck on my posse, what's poppin'? Woah
Hello, hello, hello
Hello, hello
Hello, hello, hello, hello
Hello, hello, hello
Oh, hello
Welcome to my life
Hello, hello, hello


Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a ferry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us, damn
Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a ferry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us

Shoutout to my nigga Colby
Gold on my neck like a trophy
Lil Boat powered up like a Mophie
Lil Boat that nigga stay low-key
All of these bitches they know me
All of these bitches they on me
That bitch she smile like emoji
That bitch she smile like emoji (woah damn)
I be posted up with Perry
I be counting up the guap
Keep a condom in my sock
'Cause these bitches on my cock
I need a mouth full of rocks
And I need me a Rollie
Need a mansion for my brodies
Need my diamonds to be dancin'

Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a ferry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us, damn
Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a ferry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us

All of these niggas they know
I need my bitch like a Reeses
Got yo bitch wet like the Ganges
Walkin' on water like Jesus
Bitches they changin' like seasons
I need like five for my leases
I got ice on my wrist
Whipping the work like a Prius
None of these niggas can see us
I'm up in the Himalayas
Bitches they trying to lay us
I hit that bitch then I lay up
Put it in like a finger roll
Hit that bitch and then I 'troll
Can't have one bitch I need like four
They scream my name at the shows

Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a farry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us, damn
Bitch you know it's Lil Boat
Bitch it's Lil Boat and Lil Perry
I keep them hoes like a ferry
My hair be red like a cherry
All of them niggas they know
All of them niggas they know me
All of them niggas they know us
Them niggas they wanna be us


You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat

'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out th
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, riding 'round on boulders
Money sitting up, it sits way above your shoulders
I was eating pork and rinds with a bitch from New York Times
I don't eat no pork and rinds, but that bitch was mighty fine
I got gold all on my necklace, tatted up my arms
Now my mama think I'm reckless, got guns under my mattress
I was jugging since a youngin, free my older cousin Reesey
He from Hamilton, not D.C, I rock NBs like I'm Gleeshy
Flip phone banging off the walls, Gucci on my drawers
Why the fuck you in these streets if you scared of them four walls?
I was stroking on your sister, she was calling me her mister
She suck dick for a picture, it's Lil Yachty, nice to meet you
I was jugging off them stacks, counting up them racks
Almost had a lifetime sentence, but I beat it, shout out to Pat
Pat, that's my lawyer, he got me off them charges
8 stacks for that boy, he took care of the boy

'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat

You need to stay up out the streets if you can't take the heat
When they said Lil Yachty hot, I'm like, "That's him or me?" (Lil Yachty)
Wrist like Minnesota, trapping Coca-Cola
Catching plays, Anquan Boldin
Jug out the hot box, know that it's stolen
Large sizes, all type of narcotics
Woah, got a bankroll in that big body
I love my Motorola, I love my Motorola
I love my Motorola, I love my Motorola
Fuck 12, they can't pull me over
Smoking on gas and that odor
Cook it up then flip it over
You must've forgot it, we 'bout it like soldiers
It's cold but I got my shirt off
Trap niggas can't fall off
Big sack of molly, golf ball
Big sack of molly, golf ball

I trap in Minnesota like a viking
Flood out the Sky-Dweller, it got good lighting
We made the dab and all of y'all biting
Two thick white bitches, both of 'em dykes
I make a 50 before his acre
I was in the streets but I ain't have no cable
Me and Lil Yachty touch down at the safe house
Skippa Da Flippa, I will bring the rice out

Cold like Minnesota, racks on fall, I told you
I iced out my Rollie, then did the same damn thing for my brodies
All a nigga trap spot beating like a pulse
I could put the heat inside the kitchen like a baller
I could fill your bitch head up like a lawyer
Ain't know, never sign posts
Big machine, big machine
I'm cooking bean on jelly beans
No need to smell it, all is clean
That money talking, Charlie Sheen
I'm riding Ubers with the toolie
I got more diamonds than your jeweler
I make her come back like I'm Yugi
If you ain't know it, now you knew it
I aim at her head like a sniper rifle
She can't be my bitch if she dyking, dyking
I bought her a ring but no wifey, wifey
She slurp on that dick and I like it, like it
No candy, she Mike and Ike it
No Nike, she know I do it
I eat that bitch like a hockey pocket
No Nike, she know I do it

'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
'Cause it get cold like Minnesota, cold like Minnesota
Cold like Minnesota, it get cold like Minnesota
Need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat
You need to stay up out them streets if you can't take the heat


Twin tower living big booty bitch dick all in her throat
White bitch gon' fuck gang prolly 'cause she all off the coke
I ain't fucking with these niggas
All these bitch niggas all these niggas hoes
You is not gang nigga stop tryna call me your bro
Whoa, call me your bro
Nigga hating on a nigga he gon get knocked off with the scope
And a nigga grill so fresh so clean like I use Scope
I'm the nigga with the new sound
All these people here tryna cope

Whoa, whoa, they all tryna cope
Yeah, yeah, this the new Boat nigga go on and get afloat
Yeah, whoa, whoa, yeah, yeah, Lil Boat, yeah
Lil Boat, dick all in her throat whoa

Timmy Chan's chili powder wings and lemon pepper wings for my black bitch
New ring cost 30 thou' I did it just 'cause I like to do shit
And I ain't fond of these new rappers
'Cause these new rappers be wearing fu shit
Whoa, yeah, damn, whoa
You're not my bro
No, whoa, nah, damn
Knocked off with the scope
I keep my dick all in her throat
Yeah, whoa, damn, whoa, whoa, yeah
And shit finna go down 'cause I said so
Yeah, whoa, yeah, you already know
If you ain't know my name, bitch, it's Lil Boat
It's just how it go
It's just how it go
It's just how it go


Lil Boat, Lil Boat

I said lil bitch don't you come over here if you ain't sucking dick
Gang with me and you know they keep them sticks
Thirty clips they gon' bust it at your lip
Hollow tips they gon' rip through your gang
I keep my squad with me, I keep my squad with me
I said, lil bitch don't you come over if you is not sucking dick
I said, lil bitch don't you come over here if you ain't sucking dick, I ain't got no time
Last night, we was in that black Beamer
My bitch love fur, she's so hated by PETA
All these niggas they hate me
They mad, they bitch on the daily, but they only get one night
Niggas want to fight 'cause they see I fuck they wife
Lil Boat hold the title, Lil Boat, that nigga be nice
I said, lil bitch, don't you come over here if you ain't sucking dick
I keep the gang with me, you know they keep them sticks


You know what I'm saying nigga
It's a young nigga know what I'm saying
Nigga gon' act like they don't see a young nigga
These niggas see a young nigga
These bitches see a young nigga
Nigga shine, nigga flashing you feel me
My nigga Ian up in this bitch you feel me
What's popping niggas know what's going on nigga
Nigga see how I'm coming, you don't want a problem

Boat boy just copped him some diamonds
She gon' suck my dick 'cause she like how I'm rhyming
It's all about timing
Got 22 bitches on standby they fuck when I say so
Can't talk 'til my case close
I'm hot like a pepper, don't ash it
My whip bitch it's basketball leather
Which nigga you rather it better be me
Maison Margiela just for my black tee
Can't fuck with these niggas and all they rap beef
Got a tec 400, I'm feeling like money
My mouth looking sunny
These niggas look funny, so I keep the chop
I'm know these niggas hope that I flop
I'mma flop in that pussy
It better be gushy, it better be hairless
Me and K Preme beat your ass with our bare fist
When I get on I'mma fuck me an heiress

24 karat that'll fuck up my teeth
Pussy so wet that it fuck up the sheets
Catch me posted right there on the street
Pocket rocket right under the seat
Wish a pussy nigga would try me
In the kitchen whipping up the heat
Catch purp get his ass beat
Smoking purp and then I ash it
50 band jugg then I cash it
Fucking your hoe then I pass it
Purple and lean that my passion
Make it disappear like it's magic
Don't come to the 6 where it's tragic
Bricks wrapped up in elastic
In Europe with a bad bitch
And all we smoke is that cabbage

I'mma hot box in the drop top
Now the coupe look like a crock pot
Old school cubes in my ear
Damn they looking like Macintosh
Flyer than an albatross
Rims chopped like applesauce
I don't pay the pussy what it cost
Diamonds look like tear drops
Play with squares like hop scotch
Rims so above the rim
No And1 but anyone of you niggas cross me I'm up in it
Dump in it, huh
I'mma catch a body like a cheerleader
I'mma die fly like Aaliyah
RIP I'll see ya when I see ya
40 thousand dollars on the coat
It ain't even cold I'mma call PETA
Whip it up with the eggbeater
Whole band on one sneaker
Another band on the other shoe like a nigga on house arrest
Chop hit you decompress, raising bars like bench press
Had to get the shit up off my chest

Had to get this shit up off my chest
Sendin' shots you might need a vest
26 for a nigga neck
Water diamonds jeweler straight from Fiji
When I'm on my money I look like a tiki
If you got a problem nigga don't you tweet me
I'm a real nigga, Lil Boat don't do Hilfiger
15 hundred for a still picture
Saint Laurent, nigga these ain't Jordans
Crib fill of clothes like I'm hoarding
In the air while you niggas boarding
If the cake right I'mma sitck a fork in

That damn Lil Boat, he's something else I tell ya
That Digital Nas something else too
Well, I guess uh, we gon' holla at Yachty a lil bit
He's more emotional you'll see what I'm talking about


Young nigga just ran the sac the up
Young nigga just ran the sac the up
Young nigga just ran the sac the up
Young nigga just ran the sac the up
Young nigga just ran the sac the up
Young nigga just ran the sac the up

Run my sac up
Run my sac up

I think I just raised the leverage
Purple codeine in my beverage
I'm from the 6 that's where I stay
Fuck with my gang you gon' get slayed
And I promise everything on me is good enough
He can't be NAZ 'cause that nigga not rich enough
And I can see it in his eye that nigga is broke
I be laughing at his jokes
I be fucking on his hoes
I spent everything I have
Just to make it right back
A nigga never gon' be sad
'Cause I ran my sac up

Ran my sac up
Ran my sac up

I'm making my way, I'm making my
Making my way, I'm making my
I don't even got no time
To waste money on these dimes
I'm making my way, I'm making my
Making my way, I'm making my
These niggas broke, they can't hang around me
They can't hang around me, unless they run they sac up

Run my sac up
Run my sac up

We keep on running it up
We keep on running it up
We keep on, keep, keep
In this game I'm running yeah
These niggas keep running from us
We keep on thumbing yeah
'Cause we keep on running it up
We keep on running it up
I can't even stress it enough
My pockets just ain't fat enough
They say Lil Boat you changed
They say Lil Boat don't forget about your fam
When you get to the fame I need me bout 3 rings
'Cause I'm just not flexing enough
And these niggas they not hating enough
But trust and believe
I'm on my gang I'm not sleep
I'mma take care of my brothers, make sure they eat
Niggas act like they don't see, when you rise above them
We gon' be alright
Done running it up


Never switch up
Never switch up on gang, no
Never switch up
Never switch up with the fame, no
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up no
Never switch up
Never switch up switching lanes, woah
Never switch up, won't let it get to my brain, no
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up, no

I stayed the same
I stayed the same when I got to the fame
Didn't change a thing
Only thing changed was a young nigga name
They call me Lil Boat
Hollywood chilling but I don't do coke
I stayed afloat
Didn't give a fuck what a young nigga thought no
I never cared what a nigga thought 'bout me
No I never cared
And I think that's why they fuck with me
'Cause I stayed down and I kept my originality

Never switch up
Never switch up on gang, no
Never switch up
Never switch up with the fame, no
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up no
Never switch up
Never switch up switching lanes, woah
Never switch up, won't let it get to my brain, no
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up
Never switch up no


I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night
I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night

I know you want this for life
Fuck you so good you be calling out the Christ
Bottles of the Tech got it laid on ice
We spent four seasons at the Four Seasons twice
You be calling all your homegirls like "I'm his wife"
Hell nah, you trippin', reevaluate your life
I can't love no bitch, every single ho is trife
I sip dirty Sprite just to get me through the night
But I need you there
Promise that I need you there
Ain't no other bitch gon' fuck me like you do I swear
Put that on my gang I swear
I just can't put you on front street like you want I know
But baby you is not no ho
And I put it on my gang I'm not no average joe
It's Yachty from the block you know

I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night
I know you want this for life
Taking pictures with all my ice
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for the night

Don't you tell no one, no, no, no baby don't you tell no one
We gon' keep this just between us, we gon' have some fun
Fuck until the mornin' come, when the mornin' come, I'll make you cum
But then then I gotta run, cause baby, I got shit to do
Stack my bread up, fuck ya head up, that's just what I'll do
Chillin' on my avenue
If you ain't remember, I remember, girl
That's where I first met you
You had you a drink or two
You came over half and sober callin' me your boo
Then you turned around and fucked the crew
I got no love for you

I can't have no wife, one night
You want this for life
But, I can't I can't have no wife
No wife, no, no wife
Just one night, one night
I can't, can't have no wife
I know you want this for life
But I can't have no wife
I just want you for one night

I just want you for one night
A night, you want this for life, but no
No, no, no
I can't have no wife


Oh, oh, oh, oh, it's Lil Boat
I need a hunnid for a show (I need a hunnid for a show)

'Cause with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Yeah, you my favorite boo
'Cause with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Yeah, you my favorite boo
Girl, with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Girl, you my favorite boo

I bring you around everywhere and you know that
All these other bitches broke and you know that
Bitches ain't got nothing on you
You say Lil Boat's your favorite dude
Together we could make the news
These bitches broke, they don't even have a clue
That's why I'm rocking with you
That's why you rocking with me
Baby, it's plain to see
You and me, we are just meant to be, whoa
When you riding in the whip with me
I feel so safe, I feel so damn complete

'Cause with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Yeah, you my favorite boo
'Cause with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Yeah, you my favorite boo
Girl, with you, I like to stay out late
All night and all day
Just me and you
Girl, you my favorite boo


You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
But, fuck you, you fucked me over
You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
But, fuck you, you fucked me over

I ain't got time for no diva
Especially when it came from Pleasers
I've got too much ahead of me
Give a fuck about a bitch, I got the recipe
I'm on my way, and ain't no one gettin' in my way
I'm doin' too much, I've done too much

You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
But, fuck you, you fucked me over
You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
But, fuck you, you fucked me over

I know you feel salty
You wish you could be over me
You see how I lie, see how I lie, woah
'Cause you know a nigga he ain't broke
Sailin' I don't have to say it, you just know
It's too easy to see, I know you wish you could be with me
But no, because

You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
But, fuck you, you fucked me over
You told me before we're over
You gave me the cold shoulder
Now my pockets like boulders
So fuck you, you fucked me over

Fuck you, you fucked me over
Fuck you, you fucked me over
Know you wish you were with me
Fuck you, you fucked me over


I'm sorry
Yeah, I'm sorry
'Cause I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
I didn't know, baby, I didn't know

Alright, I admit it
I fucked up this time, yeah, I did it
Always arguing 'cause you a critic
But this time, this time
Yeah, I said the wrong line
Wish I could rewind
Want to take you out, fine dine
Want to make you my dime
Aye, aye

'Cause I'm sorry
I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
No I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
I'm sorry
I'm sorry
I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
I'm sorry

Tell me where you going
Probably somewhere out there hoeing
I'm always quick to judge, yeah, I know it
But this time, this time
I sure caught you slipping this time
Wish I didn't have these thoughts on my mind
But I did some time, oh, what do I do
Oh, that's your brother, not your nigga, baby, I didn't know

I'm sorry
'Cause I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
Yeah, I didn't know, baby, I didn't know

I'm sorry
Oh, I'm sorry
I didn't know, baby, I didn't know
I thought I knew but now I know
I'm sorry
Oh, I'm sorry


For everybody that said that I wouldn't make it
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
I want you to know
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
I need you to know
For everybody that said we couldn't do it
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
Oh we did it
We did it
We did it
We did it, we did it

So for everyone talking down
Anybody who makes you frown
Let them know that's it's possible
Oh, it's possible
'Cause if they ever knock you down
Get up and let them know you finna run the town
Let them know that you got next
Tell them you got now
'Cause you good now
Don't waste time, do it right now
'Cause I did it, and you can do it

For every teacher that said that I wouldn't do shit
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
I want you to know
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
I want you to know
To the youngins that be down on this
(We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it)
To the manager at McDonald's that fired me
I need you to know, we did it
Oh I need you to know, we did it, we did it

Never take negativity from nobody
Stand tall hold your head high
Stand tall hold your head high
Reach for the sky
I never take negativity from no one
Can't nobody tell you no
Never stop, always go
Head down your own road
Never give a fuck, do it if you want to do it
That's what you gonna do pursue it, just do it
'Cause we did it, we did it, we did it

We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it
We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it
We did it, we did it, we did it, we did it, we did it
We did it
We did it, we did it, we did it


It was hot as ever today
Long time no see folks
Boat, Yachty, and Perry, and rest of the gang been inside all sunshine
With the perfect compilation of songs for you guys this summer
And I'm just so proud of them
The whole Sailing Team actually
You know I'm glad you guys liked the Lil Boat mixtape
They worked really hard on that
And I just wanted to be the first to let you guys hear Summer Songs 2
Tell me what you think!
Yah!

That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
Oh my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant
Whoa, damn
That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
On my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant

We do what we want to do
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
Yeah, yeah, yeah

It's been a long time coming this far
I remember back in school when they used to make fun of my scars
Now I'm 18, I can buy any car
Look what I did, mama so proud of her kid
Gee wiz I'm the shit
Yes I'ma brag, brag 'cause I got me a bag
And my bitch, she a brat
I'ma do what I got to do
To stay the king of the youth
Tie all my shoes so I'll never ever fall
Middle finger 'em all, walk the carpet holdin' my balls

That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
Oh my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant
Whoa, damn
That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
Oh my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant

We do what we want to do
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
Yeah, yeah, yeah

It's gon' be a hot summer, ridin' 'round the city in a Hummer
Dick deep, plunging bitches' throats like a fucking plumber
I don't care, and I never did, and I never will
It's young Will, shout out to my manager, that's Uncle Phil
I love my family
All summer 16 I'm fucking bitches on your family tree
You niggas getting tired of me
But oh well
I'm playing through your house like a doorbell and you hate it...
You hate that I made it

That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
On my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant
Whoa, damn
That's right, that's right, that's right
Niggas Kawasaki bike riding on a nigga wave
Oh my days, I want to engage, but I won't give 'em clout
No I can't, but I'ma make this chant so I won't have to rant

We do what we want to do, yeah
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
Yeah, yeah, yeah

Taking over all summer 16
On fire all summer 16
Running shit all summer
King of the youth forever
It's Yachty forever
I'ma be on fire forever
We gon' stick together forever
We gon' stick together 'cause
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
We are the youth!
All summer 16
Whoa


Brrr hey RD man, it's Boat, yeah
Hey man you know that nigga Yachty went on the goddamn mornin' show
Niggas try to freestyle, niggas tryna act like a nigga ain't got it
Like a nigga ain't still got it
Like a nigga ain't really countin' up hundred dollar bills every motherfuckin' day
Like I ain't bossed up bitch!

Stop all that flexin'
Woke up all my niggas like stop all that restin'
Might have my OG comin' do a little pressing
You niggas is pussy
I see it, I feel it, I know it, I smell it, it's clear
Fuck I look like sippin' beer?
I got 32 bitches back home waitin' on me
Give 32 fucks to a nigga hatin' on me
Got so much ice you'd think my jeweler flaked on me, God damn
Hold on, money so old, check his colon
Knot so fat Ben Franklin like who is you foldin'
Whips so new got these coppers thinkin' it's stolen
So they pull me over and see that my teeth golden
It's over, bro keep the chopper on his shoulder
Just paid cash for a Benz, and Moms, a new Rover
Still the youngest nigga sober
Still the richest nigga over on my side of town
I'm still the king with the crown
King of the teens
Show some respect and bow down
Nigga talkin' crazy, he get shot down
Ay, oh, yeah, ay, ah
How many times I'ma tell ya?
Young nigga I told ya, I told ya, I told ya
I told ya that RD up next
I told you that Boat keep a check
That Yachty could flex, lil bitch
Watch how I flip it
These niggas mad cause that weight, I just skipped it
Overnight shawty, that pussy, I dipped it
I had to slow it down cause niggas don't get it
Watch how I do it and watch how I did it
Just copped a new watch and oh boy have I shitted
Richer than ever
More wise and more clever
Ball so hard I need a letter, put that on my sweater
Lil bitch, lil bitch
Lil nigga you hate how I switched
26 shit, I dropped that on my wrist
I'm the richest out the group just like Kris Jenner
All of these niggas beginners
Fuck on that bitch then I skirt off with spinners in spinners
All of my whips got spinners
JBan$, JBan$, Lil Boat, Lil Boat

Bitch Stop all that flexin'
Spent 10 on my neck, name dropping'? we pressing
Bitch don't want no pressure
Eat pussy for breakfast
That bitch actin' reckless, drop her off in Texas
My plug he like Messi
Got bricks out like sushi, nigga you a rookie
Empire, no Cookie
Saw his chain and I took it
Catch you off in traffic, bitch don't want no static
Then don't play like Magic lil bitch
I ball like I'm Kobe but it's 20, Ginobili
My niggas not foldin', talk down, cut you open
My neck is on frozen, Olaf
He put diamonds forever
We shinin', JBan$, he might blind ya, bitch
Talk down and we find ya, bitch
JBan$ keep that iron, bitch
October 30th like Mike Meyers, bitch
G-wagon sit on the big tires, bitch
Bitch, bitch, JBan$

(Never, never, never, never)
Never ate the box like RD and Jimmy
I shoot with the semi, one eye like I'm Fetty
I look out the scope, just give me the scoop
Whenever you ready, his chest like spaghetti
That nigga gon' fold just like a futon
Would tell her jump on my dick but it's too long
I just bought a bunch of groupies with Groupon
Tell me what you want?
I told 'em, I told 'em, I told 'em
Hey, hey, I told 'em, I told 'em
Hey, I keep the chrome in my jeans
Hey, just like a chromosome
Hey, popped it with calicorn
Hey, when I get on, I'ma fuck me a capricorn
Hey, you a, byou a, ah, ah

Chubba!
All of my whips got spinners
Chop the brick in half like it's the winter, December
Put ah nigga in a blender
All these niggas be pretenders
Pretendin', pretendin'
These niggas ain't winnin'
We still on that mission to get all the blue cheese
We got them clips just like a movie
She suck me up just like a smoothie

Pussy so gooey, she lick me up after she do me
It's Boat from the Sixer, I'm cut like some scissors
I'm gone off the sizzurp, I hit her from the back
Then hit on that back like she bizzurp
Eat on that pussy like it was some dessert
Minister, sailing team, take him to chizzurch
I don't fuck with these niggas, these niggas be snitches
They just want my riches, they just wanna fuck on my bitches
These niggas, they can't
These niggas be jank
I might pull up with sword like I was Link
Pull up with a sword like 21
Hit the strip club and throw Bands just for fun
Lil Boat
Sailing Team


Lil Boat!

Baby girl this ain't a dream
I keep like 6 in my jeans
Everything ain't what it seems
But I'm really rich, what you mean?
Oh baby come blow a young fellow like cello
I wanna stuff you then lick you and stick you
Just like a lil rello
I'm too complex, shoulda, called me Marc Ecko
Hunnits all over the floor like rose petals
Chains on my neck like I won a gold medal
I'll pop her shit just like kettle
Fuckin' with me, you'll get lost in the sauce like... oh oh
I got 22 diamonds, they're brighter
I stay with my shooter and he'll put that heat to your head like hairdryer
Nigga never been a liar
No, no
Free all my real niggas locked up
Bitches come 'round when the stock's up
I give a fuck if you're not us
I give a fuck if you're not us
I thought you knew I ain't give a fuck
Ice on my neck cost a Tonka truck
Please do not call up my phone if it's not 'bout bucks
I ain't ever been a runner up no
Cry me a river, bitch get out
Nut on her face, that's my kids' house
I'm from the South like a slave's house
We just count money and fuck on these hoes
We just count money and fuck on these hoes
Yeah, yeah

If you ain't gettin' money, you broke, bitch
I ain't never fuck with no broke bitch
Fangs on my teeth like a fork, pitch
I mean pitchfork, damn
I'm gettin' brain like a dork
Young nigga hopped off the porch
My bitch do white like Scott Storch
Ain't no nigga gonna extort me
Beam at his head like Hindu
Beat up that pussy like Ryu
Pussy so bald just like Caillou
He'll pay a band to get by you
Young nigga, I do not tie shoes
I really don't give a fuck
I'll drop that nut on her butt
Young nigga nasty as fuck
Chrome to his head like Daft Punk
Don't make me open my trunk
Bro got the gas like a skunk
He been servin' from the jump, oh


Young Boat, I'm the king of the teens
Bitch go to sleep, she gon' see me in her dreams
That bitch go to sleep, she gon' see me in her... woah

Young Boat, I'm the king of the teens
Bitch go to sleep, she gon' see me in her dreams
Every time I walk around, these three thousand dollar jeans
All these pussy niggas fiends, I'm the king of the teens
Damn, Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
Damn, Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
My bitch rollin' off a bean, she the one who tote my steam
Damn, Lil Boat, you the king of the teens

Damn, Lil Boat really made it overnight
26 bitches, ride me like a bike
My diamonds, they bite, my niggas, they fight
My niggas, they knock your ass out like they're Mike
Rae Sremmurd, Boat: I do not have a type
Fly as a kite, I got bitches on ice
She gon' come over, come over for dick
Suck on the stick then dip with your bitch

Young Boat, I'm the king of the teens
Bitch go to sleep, she gon' see me in her dreams
Every time I walk around, you see thousand dollar jeans
All these pussy niggas fiends, I'm the king of the teens
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
My bitch rollin' off a bean, she the one who tote my sting
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens

How'd you do it? That's the question that they're askin'
Parents mad at my ass 'cause their kids sing my song in class
Well oh well, I'm at the front like doorbells
And shout out to my gang 'cause my gang stayed the same

Young Boat, I'm the king of the teens
Bitch go to sleep, she gon' see me in her dreams
Every time I walk around, you see thousand dollar jeans
All these pussy niggas fiends, I'm the king of the teens
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens
My bitch rollin' off a bean, she the one who tote my sting
Damn Lil Boat, you the king of the teens


Yeah I see everything that happens
You know what I'm saying?
I see all y'all little niggas, jocking and biting style
Niggas ain't me bruh, niggas can't be me
Nigga won't be, you feel me?
I know you niggas want to be part of the game, but you niggas can't be me, the fuck nigga?
I only got one little brother in this motherfucker you feel me?
Only got one little brother in this motherfucker that's rocking with me nigga
The rest of you little niggas, you little niggas is biting swag nigga
Gimme my shit back, like I don't fuck with these niggas

Nigga you ain't Uzi, you ain't Carti damn sure not me
Never on the scene, what you mean, nigga yadda mean
Ballin' like Yao Ming, paint her face, nigga just like Sting
Came up popping beans then I dropped it 'cause I'm not a fiend
All you niggas wanna be me, rub the pussy for a genie
Your bank account looking teeny, Tina Turner, big burner
Young nigga too rich for a fight, new crib on a kite
Penthouse living large, youse a broke boy rapping 'bout a dream
You ain't never shot the steam, stop lying to the teens
Big benz too clean, three thousand dollar jeans
Three times three nine in my jeans spent that on my sister
Ghost ride the older Fisker, ball hard like Derek Fisher
Riding round with my niggas, riding round with my niggas
All my niggas do is

Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof

Niggas sneaky like mice
Just got a new bitch white with a little black like dice
Niggas think I'm too nice, I'll still slap a nigga next year
Wait till I switch the gear, nigga never checked the rear
Nah, 'cause I'm only going one way, one way, bitch, on the runway
Six bitches want me nigga that's a fun day
All my niggas with me they keep gunplay, gunplay
Lil Boat

Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof
Shoot out the roof, shoot out the roof


What we gon' do with that boy?

Fuck I lost my mind
I've been runnin' since a quarter eight on the dirt road straight out The Mo'
Flip the bird 'fore a nigga faint
Fuck moms think a nigga strung on dope, niggas thinkin' I can't
Shit you wanna know me?
Let me show your ass a little thing
Every time I walk in this bitch, fresh feeling my for finna fish
She want to hold a nigga dick for the piss
To the squat for the flick
Give me yo thoughts for a bit
Right, gon' hit the weed, gon' head just cough little bit
Cum in her mouth but the kid's loss, coulda been a good spouse

Wake the fuck up baby Jacques!
Fuck, I was dreamin'!
Junior, get the fuck up!
Fuck, I cummed on my boxers, fuck!
Get yo ass up boy!
Fuck they want? Fuck!
Baby Jacques, wake the fuck up! Get yo ass downstairs!
Shut up, bitch, fuck!
Junior! Junior! Junior! What the hell!?
I gotta get the fuck out of here, fuck this...


(I just have one question)
Fuck outta my business
I did things that most men will ask forgiveness
Broke the code, the commandments from my descendants
Who gives a fuck? New children in the buildin'
We ride with no limits
Shut the fuck up, don't you hear me tryna finish?
I'm in a bad mood

Rob that dude, fuck that couch, burn that house
We the cause of the era, new niggas with new terror
A thousand on the leather, you niggas should know better
We niggas new slaves, I do say (Fuck, fuck)
Twice only on a Tuesday when I'm in a bad mood
Ooh, your skin mahogany
Ooh, let's break the monotony
Government threw us in a maze
Had me trickin' 40K for some grades
Just to make 40K for the wage
Dropped out and made that in one day
I'm in a bad mood

Ooh nigga I'm wildin' on 'em, back pilin' on 'em
I never feel the pain, only God can make it rain
So I must be Mary, Joseph, Allah
Kid of a disciple, these thoughts is suicidal
Jumpin' off a buildin', quit thinkin' like a psycho
They tryna find a nigga dead, Chris Lighty
Anxiety, after the meds, Kris Bobbi

Skinny black bastard ridin' a Casper
I tend to lose my thoughts when I walk
They say I'm a slave so tell me the master
Now his head on the pendant by the cross
Coke'd it then I fucked her for the theory
You know I'm crazy, I'm straight, no weary
I hate when conversates can't relate
You know it be fucking up my groove when I'm in a bad mood

I can't wait... I can't wait... just to shit on you...

This one for the fuck fake niggas
That love to just hate, dog
Always talkin' that wild shit
See 'em never let them verbs off
All these fuckin' missed calls
Might delete the whole call log
Thousand dollars for the jeans, fam
She grip 'em when a nigga swerve off
Think I need a desert eagle, niggas in my face
Thinking they know Jacques, niggas don't know me
Grew up on my lonestar, niggas roll that weed

I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
Just to shit on you
I can't wait, just to shit on you

(But why, Travis?)

Yeah
I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
I, I, I can't wait, just to shit on you
Just to shit on you
I can't wait, just to shit on you


Missed existence, I don't miss it
I can keep it, if I want it
There's nothing like it, it's not a secret
If the crux is a king, then I can fix it


I'm riding up uptown
I'm a mothafuckin' monster
One hand on the wheel, one hand on my dick
I'm a motherfucking monster
You riding up uptown
One hand on the wheel, one hand on my dick

At the green light I'm speeding
Fourth wheel on, I'm weaving
I got red eyes and swag seizures
All my concerts filling them bleachers
Ooh girl with this camo on, they can't see us
Tossed in a little more dank
And a little more drank than La Flame might need
Tito Puente with the candy top
Fuck around, make the Latinas pop
It's a new world order
Never had my head on my shoulders
Beware of the monsters
Ain't that what your preacher told ya?
La Flame, 500 degrees
From the uptown to the Magnolia

I'm a mothafuckin' monster
I'm a mothafuckin' monster
I'm riding up uptown
I'm a mothafuckin' monster
One hand on the wheel, eh

Damn you gorgeous, tell me something I don't know
Dice on the corner with the lights low
Got the base in my sock, fuck the 5-0
Damn you conscious
Gon' get your head off the plate though
Let me show you lil Yamamoto
Take a little lick of the mayo
Out on 135th, spending them pesos
Tell my nigga Fergie Ferg keep the back locked
'Cause we got a little bit of Tango
Real nigga from the South to the East they feel a nigga
Bangin' wax since a nigga get a wait
Take a little taste, leave you numb feeling in the face
I'll pass if that pint ain't sealed, I'll make your weekend hell
XX know that we gon' die for this and probably keep it trill
Chain links, by nigga, popular demand nigga
My bitch pearls from the clams, nigga
She can ride the dick no hands

While I'm riding uptown
I'm a mothafuckin' monster

It's that young Fergenstein (Little Frankenstein!)
Pockets full of Benji Franklins, teacher, stay in line
Cannot take a break, in time, I'll take ya shine
Take your bitch, hit it from the back, I'll break her spine
I'm a lady, your bitch look like Shanaynay
Martin 'Giela so cold feel like Tommy gettin' his payday
Going nuts like a Payday, bitches thinking I'm crazy
My fraternity is the burna heat, I'm a Kappa nigga with an AK-ay
Barking loud like Q-Dogs, moving niggas like U-Hauls
Pussy niggas so RuPaul, you pussies get me tight like blue balls

I'm riding up uptown
I'm a mothafuckin' monster
I'm riding up uptown


Our first kiss in the livin' room
That's a hella way to end the night
A hella way to end the night
We did drugs in the bedroom
That's a hella way to end the night
A hella way to end the night
But she caught me fuckin' in the bathroom
Rubbers all over the bathroom
That's a hella way to end the night
Tonight (Tonight)

I left my girl in the south, but this gold in my mouth
Thought I was in over my head, all my niggas is dead

It's a hell of a night for Heaven's sakes
All you see is mountain and clouds, can't hit the brakes
She hit me twice in the face, there goes the base
She like to lift her nylon skirt to show the lace
She say she love me but don't know what love is
I lost love 'cause my daddy said it but ain't ever done shit
Pain is love and love is hell
I might need some bail if this shit don't sell
Hand on my dick while I'm coastin' up the Fiji
Slow motionin' through emotion just in case a nigga see me
They'll come and feed you but that felt a little easy
I brought the squeegee case it get a little greasy
After a moment I fell into the mist
She reminisce a nigga style, God damn a nigga rich
Wine and cigarettes under a light
Said she lost that angel done turned into a hell of a night

I left my girl in the south, but this gold in my mouth
Thought I was in over my head, all my niggas is dead

Oh, it's a hell of a night
It's a hell of a night


Dis type of shit happens everyday
All dem I'm under mourn for people pon stay
But none of dem have the guts to pull out and spray
None of them have the guts to pull out and spray

I got diamonds on my blocka, serve it to my flocka
Yeah, that's my flocka... to my flocka
Pray to Lord on my shotta, she be proper
Yeah, that's my flocka

I'm that Ferragamo Hussein, Tom Cruisin', Rock Of Ages
Semi-god estate, gettin' cake, could've thought I'm Jewish
Fuck, fuck, fuck, might lose your soul for my language
Nowadays's, niggas been at round tables talking all that heinous language
Plutonica, insomnia
Put that money on your head, Balenciaga yarmulke
Fifteen when I carried loads of them Ozium's
And them bag of nicks, I mean groceries
I mean daddy knows ain't no controlling me
My bad, look Scotty might sag
She give me head before the ass and never let no nigga smash
No puffing, no pass
We breaking if we can get half, thank you for making it last;
Get everything that you got
Break me a piece of that off, rest in peace niggas I lost

I got diamonds on my blocka, serve it to my flocka
Yeah, that's my flocka... to my flocka
Pray to Lord on my shotta, she be proper
Yeah, that's my flocka

Oh God, this shit too cold for the mink, Ye
Bang, bang, bang, my niggas ain't tamed
Might buried your ass in that Sphinx, mane
Sip Merlot, watch us make the champagne rain
Let my ding-a-lang hang, I'm a south side nigga where the 'caine reign
We running, summers, we running
Spring and fall, jogging be nothing
Winter, they cuffing, cuffing them up as they loving
The same month as my niggas stuffing
Riding through, rockin', Shaka Zulu
Block Crip or whole family blue; bloody, yeah, su-woo
Ain't you supposed to preach what you practice?
Put a rubber on if you stabbing
Get baptized if you baptist but ain't it evil to live backwards
Holy Ghost, hold on
Chakalu blakalu los: that's tongue for you niggas who lost

I got diamonds on my blocka, serve it to my flocka
Yeah, that's my flocka... to my flocka
Pray to Lord on my shotta, she be proper
Yeah, that's my flocka


I just wanna spread my wings
Life ain't what it seems
Someone in this cruel world
Escaping through the night
Look into my night, my thoughts
Naked in this cruel world

Tears dripping on my pillow thoughts is in my head
See my dreams jump out my window if I follow I'll be dead
And I been waiting all week to talk this shit but instead
Gon' have to burn this roof down for these niggas to understand
And what we fucking for? For the lights in the night
The way yours eyes glow, you make me want to have your sight
Damn I dug my own trenches, yeah, I hide my own pistols
I survived in the coldest winter, these beats is my only dinner
You can't blame a nigga, they tryna hang a nigga
I mean like every time a nigga blink I'm throwing on the mink
And she don't want to dance 'less she drink
Will this Pharaoh make it out his sphinx?
Bookmarked a lot haters, I added more links
Rolling with the same niggas who was rolling with niggas that was on E
Wonder why I see the stars in the afternoon
Floating at night when you can catch me right under the moon


Where the weather is warm

Moonlight move when a nigga dance
Peep a nigga steeze from a nigga stance
Had to leave home wasn't working out
Kiss moms for me if you get a chance
Walk the streets where I stay
Niggas give me daps and pounds they can't wait
In the moonlight you can't see my eyes
And when I'm off the things I can't think
Man I been coasting the coast
Swear a young nigga done been through the most
Washing my mind out with dope
Shit real, but you know a nigga can't choke
When they recognize a real nigga still
Ride with me, down with me, say he a float
And all my real niggas sitting in the VIP
Shoving champagne through the next girl throat

Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Let's get high, and go dance on the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
We could fly, and go straight to the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Touch the sky, and go dance on the moon
Where the weather is warm and we forever live long

Lost in the moonlight, run through the moonlight, who knew?
Cop lights, no lights, 'cause the bills they was over due
Now a skinny iggy nigga got fits from the runway
Taking trips to the side of the moon
I just take trips to define my peace
But I got a little feeling it might be in that tomb
I like my weed in the cheese, roll that that a little thick
Better watch your toke, you don't wanna choke
Better let that jack roll down your neck
I'm on some popular shit, come look in my eyes and get a fix
We just go'n cruise hit the brews, lay back don't worry bout shit
It might get rowdy 'cause all the freaky models wanna party
All the freaky models in the lobby, it's so obvious that they lobbyist
Man it can't be realer, me and my niggas in the villa
She in that white dress it can't fit her
Sweet not bitter, drink like you got no liver
Hit it and she on the moon my nigga

Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Let's get high, and go dance on the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
We could fly, and go straight to the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Touch the sky, and go dance on the moon
Where the weather is warm and we forever live long

Paul Wall, two cups, hold up, hold up
I'm headed to the moon 'cause the west screwed up
Like the city I grew up so
I'm pouring up a co-cup, 'bout to get tore up
Got a Xanax crushed up
If you spill my cup, it'll get you fucked up
Pull up to the moon with the trunk up
Gettin' sucked up with three blunts rolled up
Smoke all three at the same time: call that triple OG
In the triple D I'm full when I'm on E, you don't know nothing 'bout me
Back wood feel with a Compton tree
Getting full of that oil, I got gas and grease
Three lines poured up in the big East
Baptized a blunt but I ain't no priest
Peach Ciroc with a Norco, piece of hash and my trippy sticks
OG wax on a bone with a skillet, me and Paskel been doing that shit
Def' rocking link, what you know about this
Baby bass came through with the kush assist
Percocet ten and a soma twist on the moon
Getting higher than a bitch and I'm doing my dance

Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Let's get high, and go dance on the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
We could fly, and go straight to the moon
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa
Touch the sky, and go dance on the moon
Where the weather is warm and we forever live long


M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-I-A-I-M-I-M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-mi

Lifted, I'm feelin' so gifted, trippin', I'm constantly fallin'
Channel view of the whole villa, plottin' while burnin' a Marley
Damn these rare thoughts is so endless, bougie bitch whippin' the 'Rari
Out in the jungles, make it rumble, she get wet like safari
Bitches don't know, I teach 'em the ropes, Scottie the Pope
Now only Giuseppe, Celine, Bottega
Proenza, the Schouler is all that she know
Might let the drop top, and she's Lamb' fam
Whippin' trans am, keep it low
She pulled out the hard white on the highway
For the line, listen, pimpin'
Your bitches might physic my disick, disick all business
Might blizzard, roll up, crib look like the tele
Left jelly all over her biscuit
Last spring I lost 10K in teeth
I copped it but now I don't miss it
Whoever found it, teeth probably glistenin'
In fact that nigga prolly missin'

These choppers and these planes
They all doin' the same, they take me overseas
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-I-A-I-M-I-M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-mi
These choppers and these planes
They all doin' the same, they take me overseas
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-m-i-a
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-i

Speedin', and damn I'm leanin' on a Kawasaki
In the lobby, then we 'dro codeinin', out in Abu Dhabi
Chain beamin', man, I hope you ain't anemic
'Cause you might feel drowsy
Out in Sweden, it's just me and four women
And we all playin' hockey
Blowed, Scott La Flame, pimp with no cane
Rockin' a robe in your hood with no pass
Fuck up the flow, nothin' but fam 'cause niggas be hoes
You can have that, pass that, light it up and then blow
Imagery abstract, it's like NASDAQ
When I stock it up and then rack it up and then go
Packed it up and moved to Goldman Sachs
My nigga Yeezy done taught me that
Young niggas in the Soho house
Spillin' booze where the Barbie at
Damn homie, this a movie nigga
Take a picture of somethin', where your Kodak at?
If Scottie ain't totin' or swimmin' in women
He writin', producin' and scorin' and filmin'

These choppers and these planes
They all doin' the same, they take me overseas
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-I-A-I-M-I-M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-mi
These choppers and these planes
They all doin' the same, they take me overseas
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-m-i-a
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-i
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-I-A-I-M-I-M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-mi
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-m-i-a
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-i

M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-I-A-I-M-I-M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-mi
M-I-A-I-M-I-A
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-m-i-a
M-i-a-mi-m-i-m-i-a-i-i


10-201, you know what I'm sayin'?
Smokin' big, drankin' syrup, know what I'm talkin' 'bout?

What, sucker free, what, what
I can do dat (I can do dat right there)
I can do dat, ay

If I spill drank on my clothes - I can do dat
It don't matter 'cause I buy me some more - I can do dat
I'ma spend about fifty in the mall - I can do dat
I'ma buy me a Bentley in the fall - I can do dat
I'ma stop weak niggas from rappin'...

I, can't, leave, drank alone
It got me feenin' (Feenin', feelin' good
Feelin' like a boss as I'm creeping through my hood)

Feel like I'm on the drive to the moon
Man I thought the world was ending soon
Damn a brother stay tested and the devil wear Prada
(Just trynna go up the avenue)

Sometimes I drive
While I'm staring in your eyes
With my hands behind your head
While you take me away

Whether I'm shinin' all winter or chillin' all summer
We rockin' furs, look like I copped 'em straight out the jungle
Used to spend cheese up on the steez, yeah I remember
Used to take trips whippin' the Jeep that my mom loaned us
Ridin' real slow
Mmhm, that the shit they didn't know
Cruisin' down 59 seeing niggas ridin' fours, I just stared at the stars
And looked with my eyes closed 'cause it's driving me wild

Sometimes I drive
While I'm staring in your eyes
With my hands behind your head
While you take me away

Hit the weed and just drive
Hit the weed and just drive
Hit the weed and just drive
Hit the weed and just drive
Oh yeah

Sometimes I drive
While I'm staring in your eyes
With my hands behind your head
While you take me away

Junior!
Fuck...
Junior, turn that shit off!
Man, for what, nigga?
What'd I tell you about playing' that loud ass music in this fuckin' house?
Fuck! Fuckin' drums crazy...


Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope
Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope

Praise to the pope, bless you with this dope
Step into my world where we get ghost
'Cause in my mind we float
Everytime we step into 1Oak, they tweaking off the coke
Fuck I'm out my mind
I'm burning bread so much lets have a toast
My niggas and momma know that if I wasn't here
Nigga I'd be dead
Now I'm in the building thinking billions
Counting millions, what a feeling
'Member when I never ever made shit?
Now me and my niggas rocking chains
And whipping slave ships; now who the slave bitch?

Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope
Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope

Straight from the lair or Himalayas
I got more keys than the mayor, let's have a prayer
Kelly Divine off in my pager, I'll hit her later
Dawn to dusk I'm trying to get made, I been up for days
Damn I'll never pop another pill, man that shit is real
Girl you know you fucking with La Flame
You know you know the drill
I reach to the heavens, lord forgive me I sin
May La Flame live forever, and always bring 'em in

Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope

Look, y'all niggas can't fuck with me
I've got a bunch of bitches tryna fuck with me
I'm unsociable with like most of them
'Cause I don't socialize with them suckers, see?
Lyrically I will demolish
This is the nail in the coffin, niggas is soft
Niggas remind me of nails at a spa
So under-polished, novices
They barkin' up the wrong tree
Double M, trust me if you with me then you goin' eat
I got them sweatin' like these bitches herein all day
And I'm off Atlantic, 2-1 rob 'em, bumbaclot, nigga
Not a P-O-K, I'm out for the VS
Get lifted, few zips like a Steep Tech
Use piff, short words for the loose girls
All mine's re-up, y'all regret
Don't worry 'bout my team, my team is set
Don't worry 'bout T, it's in depth
(When it comes to the mothafuckin' c-notes)
We'll start us a mothafuckin' glee club
God damn...

La Flame, don't play no games
These niggas is lames
These niggas ain't lords, we the new lords
Lord, self sacrifice
(Mercy me, oh, mercy me)
(Mercy me, oh, mercy me)
(Mercy me, oh, mercy me)
(Mercy me, oh, mercy me)

Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope
Straight from Mexico, call her Quintana
Damn she smoke my dope
Swear to God we go Rambo
If you disrespect the dope


I don't know about you
Feel like I'm floating through the night
Slow move to the groove
Often the feeling feels right
(Dance like a 90s baby)
Feel like I'm floating through traffic
(Then it "poof" like magic)

This shit be the coldest
Wake up nigga, smell the Folgers
Fuck she throwing up last night
Only if the dumb bitch did what I told her
She feel me, I feel her
And she even the let me move my fingers up her skirt
Fuck it live for the moment
Had no bread, now the hoes spread like toast is
Her legs spread like Moses
On my way, virgin glass we can have a toast
To the same ones that love talking that wild shit
Be the same ones who wanna be around the most
Tony said soon enough niggas will have a two-tone
Two blond chicks with the roof gone
Complaining now that her breasts out
Well at least you could've thought to put the mink on

I don't know about you
Feel like I'm floating through the night
Slow move to the groove
Often the feeling feels right
Feel like I'm floating through traffic
(Then it "poof" like magic)

Wet dreams with the prom queen
Now I'm tryna screw me a centerfold
Every nigga have their wild dreams
Mines is to fly to the summer in my winter clothes
Sin city is a mile away
I see the devil in a skirt, but it's a nightgown
Hallelujah, does it even matter if it's night or day
When we pull up, she gon' pull her shirt down
This where we find em'
Same niggas that sniff Donna
And get drunk of the Mimosa
Space green or designer
Hermes based off of drama
Call it spendin' yoda
Six years catch me trying yoga
In the Caesar Palace rocking a toga
Throwing a toga party
Chilling with your bitch and she extra naughty

I don't know about you
Feel like I'm floating through the night
Slow move to the groove
Often the feeling feels right
Feel like I'm floating through traffic
I don't know about you
Feel like I'm floating through the night
Slow move to the groove
Often the feeling feels right
Feel like I'm floating through traffic
(Then it "poof" like magic)


I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz

Man I'm in these streets it's been a long day
Bout to sign this deal and throw it all away
Bout to cop the crib that Dame lost today
Funny look at them niggas that slipping
You trippin', no fear, my niggas, we get it
I'm looking down at the whole world through these glass ceilings
And when I step outside bad bitches with me
Back in my section twisting that la la can't let it stress me
Wake up, fall asleep to Dizzy Gillespie
Ba-back it up and break it down
She gon' bust it on this dick you gon' take her out of town
I put ice in my veeners, I put rubies in my crown
Count them stacks and blow them racks, niggas know who they around

I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz

Okay, I walk in this bitch I fuck shit up then I leave ho
Pay your car note or get some money for that weed ho
45 hundred, blow it, there go double c's ho
Might go throw a Birkin bag if you tell me please ho
She gon' throw that ass back, drop that on them real niggas
I'm gon' throw that cash back, drop that on the real bitches
Murder on that pussy, ho, I feel like I kill bitches
You gon' get like every bag and every shoe if I deal with you
Young nigga ballin' like I fuckin' hit the lottery
You just want the money shorty, you ain't gotta lie to me
All these niggas hatin' on me, know they wanna body me
'Cause every time you see a nigga, I look like a robbery

I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz

(Ooh, I know you bitch niggas hate me now)
I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz
(Ooh, I know you bitch niggas hate me now)
I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz
(Ooh, I know you bitch niggas hate me now)
I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz
(Ooh, I know you bitch niggas hate me now)
I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz

Lately, I been goin' crazy
Laughin', drinkin', find myself in arms of different women, huh
Toast it, I need to use my cerebellum
Tried to tell 'em cut that rap shit all that wack shit is underwhelming
Times ticking, palms itching
Minds tripping, tired of living, mad decisions, I kill 'em
(Ooh, I know you bitch niggas hate me now)
I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz, I got bandz

I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Don't need these hoes, hundred racks to blow
Nigga, I got bandz (Oh no, oh no, goddamn)
Let's get this dough, run the world for sure
I got bandz


Midnight awakin', hyper ventilatin'
Drunk laps runnin' 'round the globe wild goose chasin'
After three number one albums woulda thought I'd feel amazin'
Still impatient, still sippin' on liquor
Still rollin' up swishas
Now its beamers double parking, fuck payin' the meter
In your club, on your couch, just got paid to be here
On your girl rubbin' on my favorite features
How could they tease us, only wanted Ben Franklins and Mona Lisas

Jesus, Jesus, Jesus
Man, I might fuck around, lose my mind, I gotta break out
I'm on a stake out, on a farm or your lake house

Around 3 AM dog
I was gettin' busy in the bathroom stall
Bad mamacita, Miami heat her, put it in a two seater
Too bad I couldn't three peat her
Need a whole lotta vida 'fore I see the reaper
House full of snow bunnies, puttin' trees up like it's Christmas Easter
With more stamps than a skinny nigga got tats on my Visa
I know the kids in La Flame, they don't trust, they believe it

Jesus, Jesus, Jesus
Man, I might fuck around, lose my mind, I gotta break out
I'm on a stake out, on a farm or your lake house
Jesus, Jesus, Jesus
Man, I might fuck around, lose my mind, I gotta break out
I'm on a stake out, on a farm or your lake house

Jesus, Jesus (I mean), Jesus, Jesus
I might fuck around, lose my mind
Jesus
Jesus, Jesus, Jesus
Jesus


Mamacita, cita, cita
Mamacita, cita, cita

This the last days to the rodeo, last night
Had me down in the back, comatose, don't think
Sun shades and a pill gon' help
Once I'm gone, can't tame myself
Mamacita, cita, cita
You know I really need yah, need yah, need yah, right now
She get freaky when the... light's down
The shit's crack, no way niggas could pipe down
With the head first, got her straight out of the night gown
Nothin' like the light-skinned mamacitas in H-Town
They got them pornstar big booties
Let me film it, then shoot it
3-D money, no illusion
Depending if I'm feelin' bougie
Might hit your line bitch

Had to cut my phone off, bitch got it vibratin' on me like a beeper
Boy I'm in Colorado, smokin' California reefer
Hey, the bitch so bad, caught a ticket 'cause I really wanna meet her
And I ain't kin to Wayne but that's my mamacita
Mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita

Mothafuck a girl
I love her, I'mma give her the world
Aye, fuck her, I wanna fuck her mother
Just might give her my little girl
No, no, I won't let go, roll down, oh
She look the best with a fro, natural nat-nat on go
Damn, Quan, turn on the stove, whip it till I have a stroke
I do not fuck with America, I get it straight off the boat
Oh, damn, the kush it never make me choke
Slow down, I'm speedin' and I got a trunk full of wham
Damn, 25 thousand on an old school Cam
SS me, these bitches wan' molest me
Damn, they'll sex me, she a lesbi
She want chicken like sesame
And she tryin' to undress me, test me
Give her hotel keys like Cassidy, you dig?

Had to cut my phone off, bitch got it vibratin' on me like a beeper
Boy I'm in Colorado, smokin' California reefer
Hey, the bitch so bad, caught a ticket 'cause I really wanna meet her
And I ain't kin to Wayne but that's my mamacita
Mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita

That's my bad little college ho
That I got on the east skirts of Decatur
Best believe that she cover Rich Homie Quan like a blazer
I smoke a lot of weed, keep my music turned up, fuck my neighbors
I fuck a nigga bitch and turn her like a table
Aye, I'm still practicin' so you know I'm gettin' greater
Aye, still wearin' long socks and shorts like Fabo
He was hatin' at first, now he tryna make the payroll
Got a stupid bitch who do whatever I say so
Money on my head like a Jesus piece
Blunt, now I'm higher than Khalifa be
Bad bitch lookin' like a Filipina
Oh, you're killin' me, oh, remember me
You, finna be, deceased if you keep callin' me
Therefore I

Had to cut my phone off, bitch got it vibratin' on me like a beeper
Boy I'm in Colorado, smokin' California reefer
Hey, the bitch so bad, caught a ticket 'cause I really wanna meet her
And I ain't kin to Wayne but that's my mamacita
Mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita
Mamacita, cita, cita
That's my mama, mamacita, that's my mama, mamacita


I'm finessin', finessin' (straight up)
I came up 100 bands a week, straight off finessin'
La Flame

Walked in this bitch
I just got through finessin' designer (straight up)
Oh my God it's no rental
Gold plated, no need to remind you
Robbed my plug
That nigga wasn't getting me higher (that dope)
Oh no no, oh no no no no no no no
Black on black as True Religion (straight up)
This that shit that keep you geekin' (bando)
I done fucked me 'round 5 bad bitches this morning (La Flame)
And I ain't goin' back unless they horny
Oh no no, oh no no no no no no no

Finessing, finessing (straight up)
I can't go one day without finessing (La Flame)
Finessing, finessing (bando)
I came up a hundred bands a week straight off finessing
Straight up, straight up
I came up a hundred bands a week straight off finessing
Been on that weed with my team
Rolling with my team, yeah we all finessing

Man here it go, fishcale, A1 perico
Fill PJ's up with kilos, then sell it like it's legal, yeah
Everybody he know could have gotten hit with the RICO
Caught a couple of charges they was weak though
Feds had to let him go in a week or so
Still, still need the key to blow, whole heap of dough
Ran the streets for so long, man the team was so on
Damn it seem like so long ago, we had 'em in Mexico
He tryna' make it back, three bricks more
The, people always run up on us in Texas though
Only by the grace of God they ain't catch us though
Some lil young nigga with some big dreams
Almost on the verge of doing some big things
Tryna' get a bird since he was sixteen
And now he playin' 'round with fifteen or more, ay
You know a nigga love nice things
And the price in the hood is too frightening
Them niggas ain't gon' do the right thing
Except for me to do my thing, hey!

Finessing, finessing (straight up)
I can't go one day without finessing (La Flame)
Finessing, finessing (bando)
I came up a hundred bands a week straight off finessing
Finessing, finessing (straight up)
I can't go one day without finessing (La Flame)
Finessing, finessing (bando)
I came up a hundred bands a week straight off finessing
Straight up, straight up

How high
Tell me why she wanna leave me
She used me to get high
Oh she used me to get higher, higher, higher
So tell me why she wanna leave me
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
(As the days go on, the southern region of our national anthem
The quest for La Flame, this journey, it's the last days)


I try it if it feels right
This feels nice
I've been down and lost for days
Glad I found you on the way
When the day gets better, the night gets brighter
I always feel this way
Through the hills
I hear you callin', miles and miles away

We up all night, from dawn to dusk it's always poppin'
I fell in love, fell outta love, we both had options
I played the drums, she rolled the joints
I rocked the club, we both throw up
We was the band you never heard before
You got that tat above your crack
And on your cat you be right back
Your momma never know
We were rollin', rollin', rollin', rollin' stones
When I'm all alone I wish you had a clone
I take that puff, you take that puff
You know we never care to overdose

I try it if it feels right
This feels nice
I've been down and lost for days
Glad I found you on the way
When the day gets better, the night gets brighter
I always feel this way
Through the hills
I hear you callin', miles and miles away

Shit I tried it, it feels nice
Shit just kinda feels nice
Miles and miles away
Miles and miles away

When you're home alone in the mood
I know you wanna move
I know you wanna dance
I know you're gettin' ready to
Chase the night away
When you're home alone in the mood
I know you wanna move
I know you wanna dance
I know you're gettin' ready to
Chase the night away


I drink slow to feed the nose, you know he likes to get blown
Has he got enough money to spend?
Leave? No! He's to and fro, he doesn't like it when the girls go
Has he got enough money to spend?

I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playing with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas

Know I need my dollars
Know a nigga need my commas
She was down when I dropped out of college
Down, she was down when I rode Impalas
Played with her pussy in the Jeep
Yeah, she was down with the foreplay drivin'
Jumped in the car when she hit my digits
Don't want nothin', just to pull up at the projects
Easy to me my nigga
Villa with a scene, youngin' always seen with a killer
Hand stitched by my dealer
Dealing with a seam you ain't seen, what you mean Margiela?
She even got the 'scripts for the cough
In the H gotta hit Johnny for the frost, swerved off
It ain't been a minute since they seen a weird nigga
From the corner put it on for the south
On my momma, know a nigga be coasting
Go nigga, go nigga grab my bottles
Go nigga, go nigga grab my chronic
Keep ya head up in the air my nigga
Niggas gon' be billionaires my nigga
Fuck how much time that shit might take
Niggas ain't playin' with 'em!
(Playin' with 'em, playin' with 'em, playin' with 'em!)

I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playing with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
B.I.G Sean Don, my aura gold, you know it
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas

Bitch don't you play me, don't you try me
I need the exact amount
Look at my face, ho, eye-to-eye me
I'm a boss, make sure you and your homies dress up, tight attire
When you see me, ho, or I'll take that white tee and tie-dye dye it
I mean, goddamn, nigga!
You forgot where I came from? I'm from where you ain't from
Where you can't come, where it ain't none
Where these bitches is bitches and they ain't nuns
Where they hate from
But as soon as you blow they act like they been down since day one
Where there's fuckin' tank guns
But niggas never join the army, like it ain't one
If I ain't got it then I'm huntin'
I'm either countin' or I'm cummin'
Swear I just done bought that mansion
Treat that shit like it's a dungeon
Up at 5AM still workin', but I treat it like it's 1
I'm never actin' like I got it
Bitch I'm actin' like I won it on these niggas!

I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playing with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with these niggas
I ain't playin' with, I ain't playin' with these niggas


Ooh, ah
Ooh, ooh, ah
Ooh, ah
Ooh, ooh, ah

I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunkin', look at all of these hundreds
Hit up the hood pharmacist, he serve all the muddy
Might shoot at your buddy who shot at my buddy
The sky keep on fallin', the drugs I keep callin'
They keep pickin' up for me, they love me
I don't wanna buy, oh no, it won't get me high, oh no
I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Hit up the hood pharmacist, he serve all the muddy
Might shoot at your buddy who shot at my buddy
The sky keep on fallin', the drugs keep on callin'

Yeah, that's that loud shit, yeah
I been out on my latest trip
I've been drunk in my latest whip
So I might crash and I asked for it
Hit the club for the cougars
I never got down with the morals of Martin Luther
I'm just tryna ball, why these niggas want me neutered?
Got her down to her drawers, trynna get a little nuder
They just wanna hang like my nigga Mr. Cooper
I'm so 'head of my time, could I show up any sooner?
They said I fucked the roommates so you know that just a rumor
Have you ever got stoned with your motherfuckin' jeweler?
Scott La Flame, no Rick the Ruler, yeah

I don't wanna buy no more
Your shit ain't gettin' me high no more
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, I'm gone off that muddy
The drugs keep on ca-- I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, get lost in the muddy
I might shoot at your buddy who shot at my buddy
Where's the love if you love me?
And the sky keep on callin', the drugs I keep callin'
They keep pickin' up for me, they love me
I don't wanna buy no more
Your shit ain't gettin' me high no more
I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, I'm gone off that muddy
The drugs keep on callin', the sky keep on fallin'

The drugs keep on callin'
The sky keep on fallin', the drugs keep on callin'
The sky keep on fallin'
The drugs keep on callin', the sky keep on fallin'
The sky keep on fallin'
The drugs keep on callin', the sky keep on fallin'
The sky keep on fallin'
The drugs keep on callin', the sky keep on fallin'
Look me inside of my eyes
All of this pain I'm tryna disguise

I'm it, like a game that get played by a kid
Pussy boy, I'm on your head like a wig
Diamonds water like I bought 'em from a squid
A1's what she get when she want dick
Black diamonds like I'm Akon kid
Whippin' I can turn a two to a six
Real talk, on Blood you dead
And I still want that head like a lid
Hit the school, make it rain on a principal
I will leave a nigga smokin' like an Optimo
All my bitches they on gringo
They ride with heat, ready to sting bro
I got 300 bitches like I'm Sosa ho
My jewelry shinin' like some Mop and Glo
Inside her pants is a camel toe
I swear I fell in love with all those

I don't wanna buy no more
Your shit ain't gettin' me high no more
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, I'm gone off that muddy
The drugs keep on ca-- I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, get lost in the muddy
I might shoot at your buddy who shot at my buddy
Where's the love if you love me?
And the sky keep on callin', the drugs I keep callin'
They keep pickin' up for me, they love me
I don't wanna buy no more
Your shit ain't gettin' me high no more
I'm trapped in my conscious
My trap is still bunky, look at all of these hundreds
Might jump with no bungee, I'm gone off that muddy
The drugs keep on callin', the sky keep on fallin'

Metro Boomin' want some more nigga


And the kids sing
Yeah, I like that, I like that, kids sing

We will understand if they don't
We don't want they bullshit no more

Alright, alright, alright
You take too many martinis, she slip straight out bikini
She let me grand slam outside the Denny's
How we gone get Oscar proud if they pay us pennies?
I'mma need my dollars now, stack it till they envy
Ya feel me?
The kids they need that
I get that feedback, sit back, relax
I'm on that relapse
Yo ass gone die if you blow my high
I been over Coastin' just was beatin' in my lotus
All that loud talk like your dope we never notice
You ain't feelin' it, nigga, 'cause you sober
I'm ballin' in the game with players, you behind the coaches
Come take a trip on my lair by the Third Coast
Come floatin'
La di, da, di, da, di, all the kids shout at the party

We will understand if they don't
We don't want they bullshit no more

You know when I was fourteen
I wanted to do a lot of kick ass shit
Yeah

Pornographic, so dramatic, cinematic
Diamond flashes, so drastic, dress so classic
Roll that cabbage, get put in casket, you dope fanatic
You the baddest, I'm sarcastic, we both laughin'
I'm the baddest, I'm out in traffic foreign gym baggin'
Stuffed in Suburban, twelve bitches straight out the beauty pageant
You know Reebok keep La feet hot, they be shipping package
GL 600 or the palace that collab with classics
Tell me what you need, I got everything green
Money, money, money trees, I buy everything
That bitch need no wedding ring, she need a bean
That boy walked in mall, that boy he need a beam
I done fucked her twice you bought her fendi things
I done sipped the act Now Imma leany fiend
I can do this by myself, don't need no team
I got all these kids and all these kids gone sing

We will understand if they don't
We don't want they bullshit no more


Got my nigga Easy in this motherfucker
Deadstock sixes and shit
Got my nigga Metro in this motherfucker

By the bar, buy the bar bitches on my table everywhere
On the floor condoms on my dresser
On my business, never plannin'
Never sober thinkin' blew me up
Body shots took on your bitches titties
Slow it down, pick it up, fuck a third
Speed the fourth gear grindin' up on everything it's my year
I got it now, everything I ever asked for
We gettin' it, far from mama's jeep she never tinted it
She frozed up, I unfrozed her, now come a little closer
Get your ass up off that wall and go roll up that doja
Tell your boyfriend bust that key go ahead and fill that nose up
Till it's over, we ain't lookin' for the hoes where the trophies
Grab a glass go ahead get throwed up
She feelin' it, don't spill the shit
She crazy, she goin', she goin'
Gone!

All this money on the table
We don't want relations
We don't want no conversations
Fuck around and change the weather
Damn I'm with my main bitch
And I don't love her no mo'
Drinkin' fuck a limitation
I done made it out the basement
Fuck around and change the weather

I'm off a bean, I'm off a bean
See this lean it's in my dreams
Off the dope, don't wanna smoke
Off this roll I might just roll
Let's get throwed
Out in Houston they know my name
In MO city they know the gang
Young La Flame ain't nothin' changed
But the chains and diamond rings
Diamond rings, I lost my brains me and Ye Ye
Out in broad day
I'm on the 3rd coast
Eatin' Burlow with Merlot
I got my shirt off
Kickin' dirt off
Out in Bergdorf
She like what you doin'?
It took a path just to get me here
Don't give a damn if that's ruined
Later on got a ring, ring, ring
She at my doorbell ding, ding, ding, ding
Let the bitch in the bitch seen bang out bang out
On the couch, on the floor, in her mouth
Cameras out
Once my dick's in no pulling out

That's my baby straight up
Bitch been doing coke since the 80's
I'm a 90's baby
Young La Flame you know he crazy

All this money on the table
We don't want relations
We don't want no conversations
Fuck around and change the weather
Damn I'm with my main bitch
And I don't love her no mo'
Drinkin' fuck a limitation
I done made it out the basement
Fuck around and change the weather


'Aight play the shit
Yuh, yuh, yuh

Gon' grab that fifth, grab that eighth
Got what you need, blow that dope, don't get too high
From the Third Coast to the West Coast, come take this ride
Let me tell the tale of how Jacques turned Scott
Over one lost trip to the sky
Let me tell the tale cause you told the tale
When you said I could make it this high
Who knew? God dammit who knew?
The grass ain't greener on the other side, it's just blue
You can really identify when you lookin' in your eyes
You ready to ride, that's true
When they look in my eyes, they see that real
How Scotty entired that juice
Had my back against that wall
Every summer felt so cold
My daddy ain't comin' home 'til fall
That's why my pimp game so moist
Had that du-rag and all
Had a 20 year old bitch in high school
Wasn't no tellin' what Travy might do
On the south side of that HOU
Hollup, let's take it back to that room
No car but still had drive
Just a hundred niggas standin' outside
Life's a beach with lot of sand on the lot
I'ma ride for all of my niggas
They forever here by my side
It was just 8 niggas in a two bedroom
No leg room, that was last June, yeah yeah

Yeah yeah forreal
Fuck what they talkin' 'bout if they ain't talkin' 'bout me, nigga
Let it be known, yeah it's that real
Yeah yeah forreal
Forreal
Fuck what they talkin' 'bout if they ain't talkin' 'bout
We them niggas everybody talkin' 'bout, it's that real
Yeah, forreal

Backyard, we chillin'
Backyard, we drinkin', smokin'
Homie brought out the liquor
Backyard, we gettin' high
Back Backyard, we chillin'
Back Backyard, we smokin', drinkin'
Back Backyard, we gettin' high

Backyard, we chillin'
Backyard, we drinkin', smokin'
Homie brought out the liquor
Backyard, we gettin' high
Back Backyard, we chillin'
Back Backyard, we smokin', drinkin'
Back Backyard, we gettin' high

Verses, one day you'll find your purpose
Now my show's packed out like churches
Fans never missin' out a word on the verses
Never sit around, just workin', it was worth it
That's for certain, I deserve it
Lord knows we don't get tired, did more dirt than a derby
Momma worked for AT&amp;T and we still ain't get that service
She stayed in/out the hospital, you know that made me nervous
Still step out the house to smell so fresh, fresh like detergent
If a bitch don't want me, don't need them still got my Jergens
And you can keep them herpes, go alert me
No house light on, cop light on, fuck this journey
You heard me, you heard me, now swervin', hittin' curbs
And my nigga, my nigga came home so it just got real

Yeah yeah forreal
Fuck what they talkin' 'bout if they ain't talkin' 'bout me, nigga
Let it be known, yeah it's that real
Yeah yeah forreal
Forreal
Fuck what they talkin' 'bout if they ain't talkin' 'bout
We them niggas everybody talkin' 'bout, it's that real
Yeah, forreal

Backyard, we chillin'
Backyard, we drinkin', smokin'
Homie brought out the liquor
Backyard, we gettin' high
Back Backyard, we chillin'
Back Backyard, we smokin', drinkin'
Back Backyard, we gettin' high

Backyard, we chillin'
Backyard, we drinkin', smokin'
Homie brought out the liquor
Backyard, we gettin' high
Back Backyard, we chillin'
Back Backyard, we smokin', drinkin'
Back Backyard, we gettin' high


We wake up when the sun goes down
Neighbor says the smell's too loud
Riding in my old school thang
Shotgun with my old school babe
So wake me when the sun goes down
Tonight's my last night in town
I pledge to a flag so grey
No matter what time the skies are grey
The sky is grey

Around this time, was starving, no Ramadan
Mighta robbed you blind
You, you, you, your dad and moms
Yeah, keep that in mind
Fear two things: being broke and dying
Jump your ass inside, LSD come take this ride
No A-C-I-D, how you get your ass inside
Good, take one peek at me, you might get lost in my mind
Yea, fuck that college shit, that scholarship, let's hypnotize
Yeah, ooh

We wake up when the sun goes down
Neighbor says the smell's too loud
Riding in my old school thang
Shotgun with my old school babe
So wake me when the sun goes down
Tonight's my last night in town
I pledge to a flag so grey
No matter what time the skies are grey
The sky is grey

Might be the last time I trip
I know I said this shit last time
But damn I never had a trip like this
Who knew a threeway on freeway can trip with three hoes to a sixway
Ain't gotta finesse out the midway
So Bird can wrap birds in that bengay
No more, goddamn
And pops never gave me shit
But pops ain't raised no bitch
I swung, I missed, he swung, he hit, then I hit that ditch
Raised in a town where it looked so good outside like it ain't that serious
My nigga got dumb years doing dumb shit
Locked up in the car, had to pull a gun quick
Killa tatted on his face, leaked to his conscious
Now he stuck in a cell, know he feeling nauseous
The nigga so good, he was so cold
Another lost kid, Mo City soul

The sky is grey


Metro Boomin want some more nigga

Back hitting licks, back on that dirty
Cuzzo back on the block, he back servin' birdies
Plug hit my switch, damn he woke me up early
If that bitch smell like swiss, oh no no no, don't serve her

Black out nigga, deeper than a frat house nigga
Doper than the crack house nigga
20/20 Lambo, new edition
Gotta hit two gears just to back out, nigga (La Flame)
Been a hell of a night but hell of a dykes cost a hell of a price
With a devil in a new dress on the 35th floor, nigga
God damn that's a hell of a sight!
Damn right that is, damn right she drowned my kids
Damn right don't doubt, damn right
Damn right I hit, anything I said I did
Damn right, only roll that gas don't pass that mid
Just treat a pint like a handle
When I'm with your girl, I hit your girl in the bando
Know I go commando
Know I need my cheese, know my cheese, know the nachos
Fall back, back, back, when you see me
Fall back when you see me tweakin'
Throw that ass back, back, back, back, know a nigga might throw that ticket
Feds hit my block, it got hot
But I'm back up in this bitch and I can't stop

Back hitting licks, back on that dirty
Cuzzo back on the block, he back servin' birdies
Plug hit my switch, damn he woke me up early
If that bitch smell like swiss, oh no no no, don't serve her
Back hitting licks, back on that dirty
Cuzzo back on the block, he back servin' birdies
Plug hit my switch, damn he woke me up early
If that bitch smell like swiss, oh no no no, don't serve her


Yeah
Oh my, oh my
Oh my, oh my
I've been up for a long time
Oh my
Oh my, oh my
Oh my, oh my
(Yeah)
Oh my, oh my
I've been up for a long time
Oh my
Oh my, oh my

I've been up for a long time
Broad day
I've been popping pills
Pouring syrup, everyday
Cuzo hanging at my aunty house (bando!) selling ye
I got shooters dressed in camo
Oh my
I've been in and out the courthouse, drug tripping
I've been flipping, flipping syrup, sipping, water whipping
Mama kicked me out the house now, oh my
I might end up on the couch now, oh my
I'm on a flight now (yeah!), oh my
LA at another couch now, oh my
I'm counting up nothing but Benjamin's right now (money)
Oh my
I'm on a flight now, we so high
About to get some cash now (cash!), oh my
Got my momma that new house now (momma!), oh my
Now she cannot kick me out now (no!), oh my
I've been up for a long time (La Flame!), oh my

Oh my, oh my
Oh my, oh my
I've been up for a long time
Oh my
Oh my, oh my
Oh my, oh my
Oh my, oh my
I've been up for a long time, oh my
Oh my, oh my

Wow
Let me tell you a little story about this side
You really can't make it on this side
Lot of lone stars on this side
I feel a lot home on this side
Ball until we fall on this side
Lit late night on this side
You never come around past midnight
You miss everything on this side
This side, this side
This side, this side, this side, this side
This side, this side
This side, this side, this side
I made a lot of money on this side
Lost a lot of money on this side
Had my first kiss on this side
Learned a lot of shit about this side
Clearly I've been thinking about this side
Tryna get back on this side
Tryna get back what's been mine
I gotta get back on this side
Really miss the feeling of the late nights
Shit we used to do around midnight
Hangin' on the corner had shit tight
Doin' all the drugs had to get right
If I could get my partner back it would be nice
He would shoot the one, wouldn't think twice
He was too involved with the street life
Only way to live on this side
This side, this side, this side
This side, this side, this side, this side
This side, this side
This side, this side, this side

Young rich nigga from the north side
Paid my dues on this side
Flipping up bricks on this side
I made it out the hood I'm on the other side
All my niggas on this side
Keep it one hundred on this side
Love to get money on this side
No new niggas on this side
Look at my diamonds don't get blind
You better handcuff you ho with a zip tie (cuff!)
I will take a busta down on this side
Broke niggas stand to the left side
Handsome and Wealthy on this side
I came from the bottom and now I'm on top that's phenomenal
This side, this side, this side, this side
If I do not make it I wonder where I will go
This side, this side, this side
Graduated from the midget
This the life I was living
Graduated to a million
It's the money that I'm getting
Graduated from a hotbox now I ride around in a Bentley
How we do it on

This side, this side, this side
Always, always this side
This side, this side, this side
That's right, that's right
You ever come around that's midnight
Midnight, midnight
You know how I like my lean, po' up
Just right
On this side
Find everything you need, everything you need on this side
This side, this side, this side
Is right

