

'One day,' the registrar continued, 'Georgy was ambling out of Melchester
on a miserable screw, the fair being just over, when he saw in front of
him a fine-looking young farmer riding out of the town in the same
direction.  He was mounted on a good strong handsome animal, worth fifty
guineas if worth a crown.  When they were going up Bissett Hill, Georgy
made it his business to overtake the young farmer.  They passed the time
o' day to one another; Georgy spoke of the state of the roads, and jogged
alongside the well-mounted stranger in very friendly conversation.  The
farmer had not been inclined to say much to Georgy at first, but by
degrees he grew quite affable too--as friendly as Georgy was toward him.
He told Crookhill that he had been doing business at Melchester fair, and
was going on as far as Shottsford-Forum that night, so as to reach
Casterbridge market the next day.  When they came to Woodyates Inn they
stopped to bait their horses, and agreed to drink together; with this
they got more friendly than ever, and on they went again.  Before they
had nearly reached Shottsford it came on to rain, and as they were now
passing through the village of Trantridge, and it was quite dark, Georgy
persuaded the young farmer to go no further that night; the rain would
most likely give them a chill.  For his part he had heard that the little
inn here was comfortable, and he meant to stay.  At last the young farmer
agreed to put up there also; and they dismounted, and entered, and had a
good supper together, and talked over their affairs like men who had
known and proved each other a long time.  When it was the hour for
retiring they went upstairs to a double-bedded room which Georgy
Crookhill had asked the landlord to let them share, so sociable were
they.

'Before they fell asleep they talked across the room about one thing and
another, running from this to that till the conversation turned upon
disguises, and changing clothes for particular ends.  The farmer told
Georgy that he had often heard tales of people doing it; but Crookhill
professed to be very ignorant of all such tricks; and soon the young
farmer sank into slumber.

'Early in the morning, while the tall young farmer was still asleep (I
tell the story as 'twas told me), honest Georgy crept out of his bed by
stealth, and dressed himself in the farmer's clothes, in the pockets of
the said clothes being the farmer's money.  Now though Georgy
particularly wanted the farmer's nice clothes and nice horse, owing to a
little transaction at the fair which made it desirable that he should not
be too easily recognized, his desires had their bounds: he did not wish
to take his young friend's money, at any rate more of it than was
necessary for paying his bill.  This he abstracted, and leaving the
farmer's purse containing the rest on the bedroom table, went downstairs.
The inn folks had not particularly noticed the faces of their customers,
and the one or two who were up at this hour had no thought but that
Georgy was the farmer; so when he had paid the bill very liberally, and
said he must be off, no objection was made to his getting the farmer's
horse saddled for himself; and he rode away upon it as if it were his
own.

'About half an hour after the young farmer awoke, and looking across the
room saw that his friend Georgy had gone away in clothes which didn't
belong to him, and had kindly left for himself the seedy ones worn by
Georgy.  At this he sat up in a deep thought for some time, instead of
hastening to give an alarm.  "The money, the money is gone," he said to
himself, "and that's bad.  But so are the clothes."

'He then looked upon the table and saw that the money, or most of it, had
been left behind.

'"Ha, ha, ha!" he cried, and began to dance about the room.  "Ha, ha,
ha!" he said again, and made beautiful smiles to himself in the shaving
glass and in the brass candlestick; and then swung about his arms for all
the world as if he were going through the sword exercise.

'When he had dressed himself in Georgy's clothes and gone downstairs, he
did not seem to mind at all that they took him for the other; and even
when he saw that he had been left a bad horse for a good one, he was not
inclined to cry out.  They told him his friend had paid the bill, at
which he seemed much pleased, and without waiting for breakfast he
mounted Georgy's horse and rode away likewise, choosing the nearest by-
lane in preference to the high-road, without knowing that Georgy had
chosen that by-lane also.

'He had not trotted more than two miles in the personal character of
Georgy Crookhill when, suddenly rounding a bend that the lane made
thereabout, he came upon a man struggling in the hands of two village
constables.  It was his friend Georgy, the borrower of his clothes and
horse.  But so far was the young farmer from showing any alacrity in
rushing forward to claim his property that he would have turned the poor
beast he rode into the wood adjoining, if he had not been already
perceived.

'"Help, help, help!" cried the constables.  "Assistance in the name of
the Crown!"

'The young farmer could do nothing but ride forward.  "What's the
matter?" he inquired, as coolly as he could.

'"A deserter--a deserter!" said they.  "One who's to be tried by court-
martial and shot without parley.  He deserted from the Dragoons at
Cheltenham some days ago, and was tracked; but the search-party can't
find him anywhere, and we told 'em if we met him we'd hand him on to 'em
forthwith.  The day after he left the barracks the rascal met a
respectable farmer and made him drunk at an inn, and told him what a fine
soldier he would make, and coaxed him to change clothes, to see how well
a military uniform would become him.  This the simple farmer did; when
our deserter said that for a joke he would leave the room and go to the
landlady, to see if she would know him in that dress.  He never came
back, and Farmer Jollice found himself in soldier's clothes, the money in
his pockets gone, and, when he got to the stable, his horse gone too."

'"A scoundrel!" says the young man in Georgy's clothes.  "And is this the
wretched caitiff?" (pointing to Georgy).

'"No, no!" cries Georgy, as innocent as a babe of this matter of the
soldier's desertion.  "He's the man!  He was wearing Farmer Jollice's
suit o' clothes, and he slept in the same room wi' me, and brought up the
subject of changing clothes, which put it into my head to dress myself in
his suit before he was awake.  He's got on mine!"

'"D'ye hear the villain?" groans the tall young man to the constables.
"Trying to get out of his crime by charging the first innocent man with
it that he sees!  No, master soldier--that won't do!"

'"No, no!  That won't do!" the constables chimed in.  "To have the
impudence to say such as that, when we caught him in the act almost!  But,
thank God, we've got the handcuffs on him at last."

'"We have, thank God," said the tall young man.  "Well, I must move on.
Good luck to ye with your prisoner!"  And off he went, as fast as his
poor jade would carry him.

'The constables then, with Georgy handcuffed between 'em, and leading the
horse, marched off in the other direction, toward the village where they
had been accosted by the escort of soldiers sent to bring the deserter
back, Georgy groaning: "I shall be shot, I shall be shot!"  They had not
gone more than a mile before they met them.

'"Hoi, there!" says the head constable.

'"Hoi, yerself!" says the corporal in charge.

'"We've got your man," says the constable.

'"Where?" says the corporal.

'"Here, between us," said the constable.  "Only you don't recognize him
out o' uniform."

'The corporal looked at Georgy hard enough; then shook his head and said
he was not the absconder.

'"But the absconder changed clothes with Farmer Jollice, and took his
horse; and this man has 'em, d'ye see!"

'"'Tis not our man," said the soldiers.  "He's a tall young fellow with a
mole on his right cheek, and a military bearing, which this man decidedly
has not."

'"I told the two officers of justice that 'twas the other!" pleaded
Georgy.  "But they wouldn't believe me."

'And so it became clear that the missing dragoon was the tall young
farmer, and not Georgy Crookhill--a fact which Farmer Jollice himself
corroborated when he arrived on the scene.  As Georgy had only robbed the
robber, his sentence was comparatively light.  The deserter from the
Dragoons was never traced: his double shift of clothing having been of
the greatest advantage to him in getting off; though he left Georgy's
horse behind him a few miles ahead, having found the poor creature more
hindrance than aid.'

* * * * *

The man from abroad seemed to be less interested in the questionable
characters of Longpuddle and their strange adventures than in the
ordinary inhabitants and the ordinary events, though his local fellow-
travellers preferred the former as subjects of discussion.  He now for
the first time asked concerning young persons of the opposite sex--or
rather those who had been young when he left his native land.  His
informants, adhering to their own opinion that the remarkable was better
worth telling than the ordinary, would not allow him to dwell upon the
simple chronicles of those who had merely come and gone.  They asked him
if he remembered Netty Sargent.

'Netty Sargent--I do, just remember her.  She was a young woman living
with her uncle when I left, if my childish recollection may be trusted.'

'That was the maid.  She was a oneyer, if you like, sir.  Not any harm in
her, you know, but up to everything.  You ought to hear how she got the
copyhold of her house extended.  Oughtn't he, Mr. Day?'

'He ought,' replied the world-ignored old painter.

'Tell him, Mr. Day.  Nobody can do it better than you, and you know the
legal part better than some of us.'

Day apologized, and began:--



NETTY SARGENT'S COPYHOLD


'She continued to live with her uncle, in the lonely house by the copse,
just as at the time you knew her; a tall spry young woman.  Ah, how well
one can remember her black hair and dancing eyes at that time, and her
sly way of screwing up her mouth when she meant to tease ye!  Well, she
was hardly out of short frocks before the chaps were after her, and by
long and by late she was courted by a young man whom perhaps you did not
know--Jasper Cliff was his name--and, though she might have had many a
better fellow, he so greatly took her fancy that 'twas Jasper or nobody
for her.  He was a selfish customer, always thinking less of what he was
going to do than of what he was going to gain by his doings.  Jasper's
eyes might have been fixed upon Netty, but his mind was upon her uncle's
house; though he was fond of her in his way--I admit that.

'This house, built by her great-great-grandfather, with its garden and
little field, was copyhold--granted upon lives in the old way, and had
been so granted for generations.  Her uncle's was the last life upon the
property; so that at his death, if there was no admittance of new lives,
it would all fall into the hands of the lord of the manor.  But 'twas
easy to admit--a slight "fine," as 'twas called, of a few pounds, was
enough to entitle him to a new deed o' grant by the custom of the manor;
and the lord could not hinder it.

'Now there could be no better provision for his niece and only relative
than a sure house over her head, and Netty's uncle should have seen to
the renewal in time, owing to the peculiar custom of forfeiture by the
dropping of the last life before the new fine was paid; for the Squire
was very anxious to get hold of the house and land; and every Sunday when
the old man came into the church and passed the Squire's pew, the Squire
would say, "A little weaker in his knees, a little crookeder in his
back--and the readmittance not applied for: ha! ha!  I shall be able to
make a complete clearing of that corner of the manor some day!"

''Twas extraordinary, now we look back upon it, that old Sargent should
have been so dilatory; yet some people are like it; and he put off
calling at the Squire's agent's office with the fine week after week,
saying to himself, "I shall have more time next market-day than I have
now."  One unfortunate hindrance was that he didn't very well like Jasper
Cliff; and as Jasper kept urging Netty, and Netty on that account kept
urging her uncle, the old man was inclined to postpone the re-liveing as
long as he could, to spite the selfish young lover.  At last old Mr.
Sargent fell ill, and then Jasper could bear it no longer: he produced
the fine-money himself, and handed it to Netty, and spoke to her plainly.

'"You and your uncle ought to know better.  You should press him more.
There's the money.  If you let the house and ground slip between ye, I
won't marry; hang me if I will!  For folks won't deserve a husband that
can do such things."

'The worried girl took the money and went home, and told her uncle that
it was no house no husband for her.  Old Mr. Sargent pooh-poohed the
money, for the amount was not worth consideration, but he did now bestir
himself; for he saw she was bent upon marrying Jasper, and he did not
wish to make her unhappy, since she was so determined.  It was much to
the Squire's annoyance that he found Sargent had moved in the matter at
last; but he could not gainsay it, and the documents were prepared (for
on this manor the copy-holders had writings with their holdings, though
on some manors they had none).  Old Sargent being now too feeble to go to
the agent's house, the deed was to be brought to his house signed, and
handed over as a receipt for the money; the counterpart to be signed by
Sargent, and sent back to the Squire.

'The agent had promised to call on old Sargent for this purpose at five
o'clock, and Netty put the money into her desk to have it close at hand.
While doing this she heard a slight cry from her uncle, and turning
round, saw that he had fallen forward in his chair.  She went and lifted
him, but he was unconscious; and unconscious he remained.  Neither
medicine nor stimulants would bring him to himself.  She had been told
that he might possibly go off in that way, and it seemed as if the end
had come.  Before she had started for a doctor his face and extremities
grew quite cold and white, and she saw that help would be useless.  He
was stone-dead.

'Netty's situation rose upon her distracted mind in all its seriousness.
The house, garden, and field were lost--by a few hours--and with them a
home for herself and her lover.  She would not think so meanly of Jasper
as to suppose that he would adhere to the resolution declared in a moment
of impatience; but she trembled, nevertheless.  Why could not her uncle
have lived a couple of hours longer, since he had lived so long?  It was
now past three o'clock; at five the agent was to call, and, if all had
gone well, by ten minutes past five the house and holding would have been
securely hers for her own and Jasper's lives, these being two of the
three proposed to be added by paying the fine.  How that wretched old
Squire would rejoice at getting the little tenancy into his hands!  He
did not really require it, but constitutionally hated these tiny
copyholds and leaseholds and freeholds, which made islands of
independence in the fair, smooth ocean of his estates.

'Then an idea struck into the head of Netty how to accomplish her object
in spite of her uncle's negligence.  It was a dull December afternoon:
and the first step in her scheme--so the story goes, and I see no reason
to doubt it--'

''Tis true as the light,' affirmed Christopher Twink.  'I was just
passing by.'

'The first step in her scheme was to fasten the outer door, to make sure
of not being interrupted.  Then she set to work by placing her uncle's
small, heavy oak table before the fire; then she went to her uncle's
corpse, sitting in the chair as he had died--a stuffed arm-chair, on
casters, and rather high in the seat, so it was told me--and wheeled the
chair, uncle and all, to the table, placing him with his back toward the
window, in the attitude of bending over the said oak table, which I knew
as a boy as well as I know any piece of furniture in my own house.  On
the table she laid the large family Bible open before him, and placed his
forefinger on the page; and then she opened his eyelids a bit, and put on
him his spectacles, so that from behind he appeared for all the world as
if he were reading the Scriptures.  Then she unfastened the door and sat
down, and when it grew dark she lit a candle, and put it on the table
beside her uncle's book.

'Folk may well guess how the time passed with her till the agent came,
and how, when his knock sounded upon the door, she nearly started out of
her skin--at least that's as it was told me.  Netty promptly went to the
door.

'"I am sorry, sir," she says, under her breath; "my uncle is not so well
to-night, and I'm afraid he can't see you."

'"H'm!--that's a pretty tale," says the steward.  "So I've come all this
way about this trumpery little job for nothing!"

'"O no, sir--I hope not," says Netty.  "I suppose the business of
granting the new deed can be done just the same?"

'"Done?  Certainly not.  He must pay the renewal money, and sign the
parchment in my presence."

'She looked dubious.  "Uncle is so dreadful nervous about law business,"
says she, "that, as you know, he's put it off and put it off for years;
and now to-day really I've feared it would verily drive him out of his
mind.  His poor three teeth quite chattered when I said to him that you
would be here soon with the parchment writing.  He always was afraid of
agents, and folks that come for rent, and such-like."

'"Poor old fellow--I'm sorry for him.  Well, the thing can't be done
unless I see him and witness his signature."

'"Suppose, sir, that you see him sign, and he don't see you looking at
him?  I'd soothe his nerves by saying you weren't strict about the form
of witnessing, and didn't wish to come in.  So that it was done in your
bare presence it would be sufficient, would it not?  As he's such an old,
shrinking, shivering man, it would be a great considerateness on your
part if that would do?"

'"In my bare presence would do, of course--that's all I come for.  But
how can I be a witness without his seeing me?"

'"Why, in this way, sir; if you'll oblige me by just stepping here."  She
conducted him a few yards to the left, till they were opposite the
parlour window.  The blind had been left up purposely, and the candle-
light shone out upon the garden bushes.  Within the agent could see, at
the other end of the room, the back and side of the old man's head, and
his shoulders and arm, sitting with the book and candle before him, and
his spectacles on his nose, as she had placed him.

'"He's reading his Bible, as you see, sir," she says, quite in her
meekest way.

'"Yes.  I thought he was a careless sort of man in matters of religion?"

'"He always was fond of his Bible," Netty assured him.  "Though I think
he's nodding over it just at this moment However, that's natural in an
old man, and unwell.  Now you could stand here and see him sign, couldn't
you, sir, as he's such an invalid?"

'"Very well," said the agent, lighting a cigar.  "You have ready by you
the merely nominal sum you'll have to pay for the admittance, of course?"

'"Yes," said Netty.  "I'll bring it out."  She fetched the cash, wrapped
in paper, and handed it to him, and when he had counted it the steward
took from his breast pocket the precious parchments and gave one to her
to be signed.

'"Uncle's hand is a little paralyzed," she said.  "And what with his
being half asleep, too, really I don't know what sort of a signature
he'll be able to make."

'"Doesn't matter, so that he signs."

'"Might I hold his hand?"

'"Ay, hold his hand, my young woman--that will be near enough."

'Netty re-entered the house, and the agent continued smoking outside the
window.  Now came the ticklish part of Netty's performance.  The steward
saw her put the inkhorn--"horn," says I in my old-fashioned way--the
inkstand, before her uncle, and touch his elbow as to arouse him, and
speak to him, and spread out the deed; when she had pointed to show him
where to sign she dipped the pen and put it into his hand.  To hold his
hand she artfully stepped behind him, so that the agent could only see a
little bit of his head, and the hand she held; but he saw the old man's
hand trace his name on the document.  As soon as 'twas done she came out
to the steward with the parchment in her hand, and the steward signed as
witness by the light from the parlour window.  Then he gave her the deed
signed by the Squire, and left; and next morning Netty told the
neighbours that her uncle was dead in his bed.'

'She must have undressed him and put him there.'

'She must.  Oh, that girl had a nerve, I can tell ye!  Well, to cut a
long story short, that's how she got back the house and field that were,
strictly speaking, gone from her; and by getting them, got her a husband.

'Every virtue has its reward, they say.  Netty had hers for her ingenious
contrivance to gain Jasper.  Two years after they were married he took to
beating her--not hard, you know; just a smack or two, enough to set her
in a temper, and let out to the neighbours what she had done to win him,
and how she repented of her pains.  When the old Squire was dead, and his
son came into the property, this confession of hers began to be whispered
about.  But Netty was a pretty young woman, and the Squire's son was a
pretty young man at that time, and wider-minded than his father, having
no objection to little holdings; and he never took any proceedings
against her.'

There was now a lull in the discourse, and soon the van descended the
hill leading into the long straggling village.  When the houses were
reached the passengers dropped off one by one, each at his or her own
door.  Arrived at the inn, the returned emigrant secured a bed, and
having eaten a light meal, sallied forth upon the scene he had known so
well in his early days.  Though flooded with the light of the rising
moon, none of the objects wore the attractiveness in this their real
presentation that had ever accompanied their images in the field of his
imagination when he was more than two thousand miles removed from them.
The peculiar charm attaching to an old village in an old country, as seen
by the eyes of an absolute foreigner, was lowered in his case by
magnified expectations from infantine memories.  He walked on, looking at
this chimney and that old wall, till he came to the churchyard, which he
entered.

The head-stones, whitened by the moon, were easily decipherable; and now
for the first time Lackland began to feel himself amid the village
community that he had left behind him five-and-thirty years before.  Here,
besides the Sallets, the Darths, the Pawles, the Privetts, the Sargents,
and others of whom he had just heard, were names he remembered even
better than those: the Jickses, and the Crosses, and the Knights, and the
Olds.  Doubtless representatives of these families, or some of them, were
yet among the living; but to him they would all be as strangers.  Far
from finding his heart ready-supplied with roots and tendrils here, he
perceived that in returning to this spot it would be incumbent upon him
to re-establish himself from the beginning, precisely as though he had
never known the place, nor it him.  Time had not condescended to wait his
pleasure, nor local life his greeting.

The figure of Mr. Lackland was seen at the inn, and in the village
street, and in the fields and lanes about Upper Longpuddle, for a few
days after his arrival, and then, ghost-like, it silently disappeared.  He
had told some of the villagers that his immediate purpose in coming had
been fulfilled by a sight of the place, and by conversation with its
inhabitants: but that his ulterior purpose--of coming to spend his latter
days among them--would probably never be carried out.  It is now a dozen
or fifteen years since his visit was paid, and his face has not again
been seen.
